

===== PAGE 1 =====
A comprehensive review of loop heat pipe: From fundamental researches 
to applications
Qingjie Cui
a , c
, Ziyi You
a , c
, Yicheng Ni
a , c
, Xiaoping Yang
a , c , *
, Yao Zhou
b
, Jinjia Wei
a , c
,  
Jiping Liu
b
a
School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Xian Jiaotong University, Xi ’ an, Shaanxi 710049, PR China
b
MOE Key Laboratory of Thermo-Fluid Science and Engineering, Xi ’ an Jiaotong University, Xi ’ an, Shaanxi 710049, PR China
c
State Key Laboratory of Fluorine and Nitrogen Chemicals, PR China
ARTICLE INFO
Keywords:
Loop heat pipe ； theoretical models
Heat transfer limit
Wick
Temperature oscillation
Optimized design
ABSTRACT
With the rapid development of clean energy and artificial intelligence technologies, the thermal management of 
electronic devices in energy systems, data centers, and new energy vehicles has become a critical challenge. 
Efficient, compact, and reliable heat dissipation solutions are urgently needed to address the increasing power 
density and operational demands of these systems. Loop heat pipes (LHP), as a passive phase-change thermal 
management device, have shown great potential in thermal management of electronic devices both on the 
ground and in space due to their high efficiency, compactness, and reliability. LHP has attracted widespread 
global attention, thus, this paper reviews the research progress of loop heat pipes in terms of structural design, 
heat transfer limit, numerical simulation, and operational stability. The design of loop heat pipes needs to 
consider specific application environments and work mass selection in order to optimize their thermal perfor -
mance. It has been shown that the heat transfer efficiency of loop heat pipes can be significantly improved by 
optimizing the design of the evaporator and condenser, selecting the appropriate component materials, and 
improving the wick structure. Despite the significant progress, there are still many challenges in the application 
of loop heat pipes, such as the improvement of heat transfer limits and the suppression of instability. Future 
research should focus on the application of novel materials, structural optimization, and stability analysis in 
complex environments, while combining artificial intelligence and big data technologies to achieve more ac -
curate performance prediction and optimal design. This paper provides an important theoretical foundation and 
development direction for the research and application of loop heat pipes.
1. Introduction
As electronic information technology rapidly advances, electronic 
devices have seen significant integration and performance boosts, 
resulting in chips with high heat flux density and power. However, the 
substantial heat generated by these chips fosters an unfavorable thermal 
environment, significantly compromising the lifespan and reliability of 
electronic devices ( Ha and Graham, 2012; Wu et al., 2015; Tharwan and 
Hadidi, 2022 ). This issue is particularly acute in ground-based appli -
cations, notably in the realm of data centers. Presently, high- 
performance racks boast powers exceeding 30 kW and are progressing 
towards 100 kW. Traditional air-cooling technologies fall short in 
meeting the cooling demands of contemporary data centers, plagued by 
issues such as excessive noise, low cooling efficiency, and poor Power 
Usage Effectiveness (PUE). While indirect liquid cooling technologies, 
like cold plates, have somewhat mitigated the deficiencies of air-cooling, 
they are still confronted with challenges such as a plethora of connecting 
pipes, heightened leakage risks, and elevated operation and mainte -
nance costs ( OR ´o et al., 2018; Ding et al., 2016 ). Consequently, data 
centers are in dire need of a new generation of cooling technology that 
combines high cooling efficiency with straightforward maintenance.
Loop heat pipe (LHP) is an advanced two-phase heat transfer device 
based on capillary action, first patented in the USSR in 1974 ( Heat Pipe, 
1974; Maydanik, 2005 ). The technology was successfully validated in 
space through Soviet experiments on the Granat spacecraft (1989 – 1996) 
and first implemented operationally on the Russian Obzor spacecraft in 
1994 ( Al, 1995; Chernyshova et al., 1999 ). The term ’ Loop Heat Pipe ’ 
was formally proposed by Maidanik et al. in 1990 ( Heat transfer 
* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: yxping@xjtu.edu.cn (X. Yang). 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow
journal homepag e: www.el sevier.com/loc ate/ijhff
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijheatfluidflow.2025.109880
Received 20 December 2024; Received in revised form 29 April 2025; Accepted 4 May 2025  
International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
Available online 15 May 2025 
0142-727X/© 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
apparatus, US Patent 45, 1985 ). Following NASA ’ s flight experiment on 
STS-87 (1997), LHPs have become critical thermal management com -
ponents in spacecraft systems and commercial electronics. ( Maydanik, 
2005; Wang et al., 2022; Swanson and Birur, 2003; Riehl and Dutra, 
2005 ) By harnessing its distinctive capillary pumping, evaporation, and 
condensation cycle, LHP technology effectively transports significant 
amounts of heat from the heat source to the heat sink without the need 
for manual intervention. This unique capability has rendered LHP 
technology widely applicable across various domains, encompassing 
heat dissipation for electronic devices with high heat flux density ( Wang 
et al., 2022; Maydanik et al., 2020; Xue et al., 2020 ),waste heat recovery 
( Weng et al., 2021; Huang et al., 2015 ), thermal management of 
spacecrafts ( Yang et al., 2022; Fredphillips and Wert, 2000 ), and solar 
energy utilization ( Zhao et al., 2010; Chiou, 1982 ).
The core of LHP technology is its wick structure and unique oper -
ating principle. The system mainly consists of four components: an 
evaporator, a condenser, a vapor line, and a liquid line., as depicted in 
Fig. 1 . Within the evaporator, a porous wick material generates capillary 
forces that propel the working fluid to circulate within the loop. As the 
evaporator ’ s baseplate absorbs heat, the working fluid on the wick 
surface evaporates, and the resulting vapor traverses the vapor line to 
the condenser, where it condenses and dissipates heat into the ambient 
environment. The condensed liquid then makes its way back to the 
compensation chamber of the evaporator through the liquid line, and, 
driven by capillary forces, continues its journey to the evaporation zone 
for the next heat absorption cycle. This entire process exemplifies LHP ’ s 
myriad advantages, including its elimination of the need for external 
power, absence of moving parts, flexible layout options, and extended 
heat transfer capabilities ( Li et al., 2010; Hong et al., 2017; Gabsi et al., 
2018; Gully et al., 2011; Okamoto et al., 2019 ). These attributes position 
LHP technology as an optimal solution for addressing current electronic 
device cooling challenges. In response to the escalating cooling demands 
of electronic equipment, researchers worldwide have embarked on 
extensive studies of LHP, aiming to refine its design and enhance its 
performance, thereby enabling it to seamlessly adapt to diverse appli -
cation scenarios and fulfill the escalating cooling needs.
Over the past decade, LHP has emerged as a focal point of research in 
the field of heat transfer. Fig. 2 illustrates the total number of LHP- 
related papers published between 2014 and 2023, amounting to 447. 
The overall trend indicates a steady annual increase, rising from 37 
papers in 2014 to 73 in 2022. We have categorized these papers based on 
the heat dissipation power, number of heat sources, and evaporator 
thickness of the LHP, with a particular emphasis on High-Power Loop 
Heat Pipe (HP-LHP), Multiple Evaporator Loop Heat Pipe (ME-LHP), and 
Mini Loop Heat Pipe (mLHP). HP-LHP is defined as those with a 
maximum heat dissipation power exceeding 100 W. ME-LHP features 
two or more evaporators, while mLHP boasts an evaporator thickness of 
less than 1 mm. As depicted in the figure, HP-LHP has consistently been 
a research hotspot within the LHP field, highlighting a key advantage of 
LHP over traditional heat pipes. From 2014 to 2021, ME-LHP garnered 
increasing attention due to the escalating number of chips in individual 
electronic devices (such as servers and 5G base stations), as ME-LHP 
offers the potential to simplify thermal management systems and 
reduce costs. Since 2020, with the ongoing trend of lightweight and 
miniaturization in electronic devices (particularly mobile devices), 
Ultra-thin Loop Heat Pipe (ULHP) have emerged as a novel research 
focus.
This paper aims to provide a comprehensive review and summary of 
LHP research progress since the 1990 s and to outline future research 
directions in this field, offering valuable insights to scholars worldwide 
for various LHP applications. The article will unfold from the following 
aspects: 
1. Research Progress on LHP Configurations: The design of LHP 
configurations frequently aligns with the spatial layout of the 
application environment, heat source power, environmental condi -
tions, and other pertinent factors, all of which crucially influence its 
thermal dissipation capabilities. In recent years, research has pri -
marily concentrated on evaporator structures, the quantity of evap -
orators, and the selection of working fluids. The structural design of 
evaporators necessitates a dual focus: accommodating specific 
application environments while optimizing thermal dissipation per -
formance. Multi-evaporator configurations enable simultaneous heat 
dissipation from numerous heat sources, thereby eliminating the 
necessity for multiple LHP systems, which simplifies the structure 
and decreases costs. Furthermore, working fluid selection requires 
comprehensive evaluation of multiple criteria: in addition to thermal 
transport performance in loop heat pipes, it is essential to assess the 
fluid ’ s adaptability under various climatic conditions (e.g., extreme 
low or high temperature environments), while rigorously examining 
key parameters including toxicity levels, biocompatibility, and 
environmental sustainability.
2. Performance Optimization of Loop Heat Pipe: Heat transfer limit 
is one of the important evaluation indexes for the performance of 
LHP. Capillary limit, boiling limit and condensation limit are the 
main heat transfer limits of LHP. Among them, the capillary limit is 
the most basic constraint of LHP, which determines the maximum 
heat transfer capacity of LHP, while the boiling and condensation 
Fig. 1. Schematic Diagram of LHP Structure.
Fig. 2. Number of LHP Papers from 2014 to 2023.
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
2 

===== PAGE 3 =====
problems usually appear only when the extreme heat load or heat 
dissipation is insufficient. The researchers have conducted an in- 
depth study on the capillary limit and proposed various optimiza -
tion measures, such as capillary core performance enhancement, 
working material optimization, and LHP structural improvement, 
which provide theoretical basis and technical support to enhance the 
performance of LHP.
3. Advancements in LHP theory and simulation: LHP involve mul -
tiple complex physical processes such as evaporation/boiling and 
condensation in porous media. Purely experimental research strug -
gles to unveil the internal heat and mass transfer mechanisms and 
provide quantitative guidance for LHP design and performance 
prediction. Consequently, researchers worldwide have focused on 
theoretical and numerical simulations of LHP, primarily concen -
trating on modeling the evaporator and the entire LHP system.
4. Research on the instability mechanisms and suppression 
methods of LHP: LHP may exhibit instability phenomena during 
operation or startup, such as temperature fluctuations, startup fail -
ures at low power, and temperature overshoots, which severely limit 
LHP performance. Researchers have delved into the causes of these 
issues and proposed corresponding solutions.
5. Applications of LHP: Initially applied in thermal management for 
spacecraft, LHP have demonstrated excellent heat dissipation per -
formance and reliability under microgravity conditions. As a result, 
LHP have garnered widespread attention for ground applications. 
Thanks to their high heat dissipation performance and flexibility, 
researchers continue to expand LHP ’ s application scenarios under 
normal gravity conditions on Earth.
6. Future research directions: Despite remarkable advancements in 
the fields of LHP configuration, heat transfer limits, theoretical and 
simulation studies, instability mechanisms and their suppression 
methods, as well as applications, numerous challenges and unre -
solved issues persist. In the future, researchers can further delve into 
the application of novel materials in LHP, aiming to develop more 
efficient heat transfer working fluids. Moreover, optimizing the 
structural design of LHP to enhance their performance and con -
ducting in-depth investigations into their stability and reliability in 
complex environments will be crucial. Furthermore, with the pro -
gression of AI and big data technologies, incorporating these into 
LHP research hold the promise of achieving more accurate perfor -
mance predictions and optimized designs.
In summary, as an efficient heat transfer device, LHP holds broad 
application prospects across various fields. Through continuous research 
and exploration, we can address existing issues and challenges, driving 
the further development of LHP technology.
2. LHP configuration
2.1. Evaporator configuration
The evaporator is the core component of the LHP, which consists of 
the wick, vapor grooves and compensation chamber, and is the main 
place for phase change heat transfer and liquid replenishment. Evapo -
rators can be classified in various ways based on different application 
scenarios and design requirements. In terms of shape characteristics, 
LHP evaporators are mainly categorized into cylindrical, flat-oval, 
rectangular, and disk-shaped types, as shown in Fig. 3 ( Maydanik 
et al., 2014 ). Flat-oval evaporators have seen significant development in 
practical applications due to their direct contact with planar heat 
sources, resulting in uniform temperature distribution, reduced height, 
and lower thermal resistance between the heat source and evaporator 
( Yang et al., 2022 ). Based on the positional relationship between the 
evaporation zone and the compensation chamber, evaporators can be 
further divided into reverse liquid supply and vertical liquid supply 
types ( Maydanik et al., 2014 ). Reverse liquid supply evaporators feature 
a wick positioned between the compensation chamber and the heated 
surface, which shortens the liquid supply distance and ensures more 
uniform liquid distribution, as illustrated in Fig. 4 (a). However, this 
structure also has limitations, such as the evaporator ’ s thickness being 
constrained by the size of the compensation chamber. In contrast, ver -
tical liquid supply evaporators have their compensation chamber 
located on the side of the evaporation zone, allowing for a significant 
reduction in evaporator thickness, even down to less than 1 mm, as 
shown in Fig. 4 (b). Yet, this design introduces new challenges, such as 
increased transport distance for the working fluid within the wick, 
potentially leading to drying out on the side of the wick farthest from the 
compensation chamber, thus imposing higher requirements on the 
wick ’ s liquid absorption performance.
In summary, designing LHP evaporator is a complex task involving 
multiple factors, including shape, heat source, working fluid, and the 
positional relationship between the evaporation zone and the compen -
sation chamber. In practical applications, the choice of evaporator type 
depends on specific application scenarios and requirements. For 
instance, a flat-oval evaporator may be a better choice in scenarios 
requiring high compactness and uniformity in temperature distribution. 
In situations with strict constraints on evaporator thickness (e.g., mobile 
electronic devices), vertical liquid supply evaporators may have an 
advantage.
2.2. Structural improvement of the evaporator
Optimizing the internal structure of the evaporator is a crucial 
approach to enhancing LHP performance. North et al. ( North et al., 
1997 ) reduced the size of vapor channels while increasing their number, 
decreasing the proportion of vapor channels and thereby increasing the 
contact area between the shell and the wick. This design improved the 
performance of the modified LHP by tenfold compared to traditional 
structures, achieving a maximum heat flux of 70 W/cm
2
. Wu et al. ( Wu 
et al., 2014 ) investigated the impact of increasing the number of chan -
nels on the wick surface. As the number of channels increased from 8 to 
16, heat transfer performance also improved, with optimal heat transfer 
performance achieved at 14 channels. Kiseev et al. ( Kiseev et al., 2010 ) 
proposed that the ideal ratio between the total area of vapor channels 
(cross-section in the heat input direction) and the total area of the heat 
input wall is approximately 0.4 to 0.5. At this ratio, the efficiency of the 
evaporator can be significantly enhanced when machining vapor chan -
nels on the evaporator baseplate. When the ratio is too high, the high 
vapor pressure formed within the vapor channels may become a chal -
lenge. To overcome the deformation issue of the evaporator ’ s heated 
surface, He et al. ( He et al., 2018 ) proposed adding reinforcing ribs to 
the evaporator baseplate, as shown in Fig. 5 (a). Experimental results 
showed that this LHP could operate stably under a heat load range of 10 
to 160 W and a heat source temperature below 80 
◦
C. Tian et al. ( Tian 
et al., 2019 ) designed an eccentric wick arrangement based on a disk- 
shaped evaporator, as shown in Fig. 5 (b). This design allowed more 
Fig. 3. Main Shapes of LHP Evaporator ( Maydanik et al., 2014 ).
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
3 

===== PAGE 4 =====
than 2/3 of the wick ’ s sidewall area to contact the compensation 
chamber, not only increasing liquid supply but also shortening the 
supply distance, effectively delaying wick drying. Tang et al. ( Tang 
et al., 2010 ) introduced a vapor separator structure to ensure one-way 
flow of the working fluid, as shown in Fig. 5 (c). With gravity assis -
tance (the condenser above the evaporator), this structure can achieve a 
maximum heat load of 150 W and a minimum thermal resistance of 
0.0315 K/W. Finally, Kamran et al. ( Kamran et al., 2021 ) adopted a 
design with different diameters for the evaporator ’ s vapor and liquid 
lines, as shown in Fig. 5 (d), which not only effectively prevented reverse 
flow of vapor through the liquid line but also accelerated the flow ve -
locity of condensed liquid in the liquid line.
In traditional LHP evaporators, vapor channels are typically 
machined into the evaporator baseplate, and then the wick is pressed 
onto the top of the vapor channels to form an enclosed vapor flow space. 
In this structure, heat must be conducted through the side walls of the 
vapor channels to the contact surface with the wick, and then through 
the wick to the liquid working fluid to generate phase change. This 
Fig. 4. Positional Relationship between the Evaporation Zone and the Compensation Chamber ( Maydanik et al., 2014 ).
Fig. 5. Evaporator with Reinforced Ribs on the Heated Side and Varying Diameters of Transport Lines.
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
4 

===== PAGE 5 =====
results in a long heat conduction path and low evaporation efficiency. 
Therefore, some researchers have placed the vapor channels directly in 
the wick on the evaporator baseplate to increase the evaporation area 
and vapor venting space, thereby delaying wick dry-out ( Xiong et al., 
2022; Ji et al., 2017 ). Ji et al. ( Ji et al., 2017 )found that when the LHP is 
tilted at   90
◦
, placing the vapor channels within the wick can increase 
the limiting heat flux from 20 W/cm
2 
to 40 W/cm
2
. Riehl et al. ( Riehl 
and dos Santos, 2008 ), from a geometrical perspective, comparatively 
studied the performance of LHP with axial and circumferential channels 
in the wick (leaving only one axial channel for vapor collection). The 
results indicated that, compared to axial channels, the use of circum -
ferential channels can increase the interconnected area, further 
enhancing the overall system performance. To address the issue of 
contact thermal resistance between the wick and the heating surface, Li 
et al. ( Li et al., 2011 )directly sintered the wick onto the evaporator shell 
to prevent the formation of a thin vapor film between the wick and the 
heating surface, as shown in Fig. 6 . The current research on the struc -
tural improvement of the circulating heat pipe evaporator mainly fo -
cuses on the optimization of steam passages, the enhancement of fin 
configurations and the reduction of interfacial thermal resistance. 
Table 1 summarizes the work related to the improved structure of the 
evaporator.
2.3. Miniature loop heat pipe
Due to the miniaturization of electronic chips and limited space for 
thermal management, loop heat pipes must be miniaturized. Miniature 
loop heat pipe (mLHP) was first proposed by Pastukhov and Maidanik in 
2003 and referred to LHPs with cylindrical evaporators of 5 – 6 mm 
diameter with lines of 1.8 – 2.0 mm diameter ( Pastukhov et al., 2003 ). 
Later this term was extended to cylindrical evaporators up to 8 mm in 
diameter and flat copper evaporators up to 3.2 mm thick and disk- 
shaped evaporators 10 – 14 mm thick with lines 2 mm in diameter 
( MAYDANIK et al., 2004 ). However, most researchers use the term 
“ micro LHP ” when referring to miniature LHPs. It is important to note 
that this terminology is incorrect because none of the existing LHP de -
signs are capable of operating at the micrometer scale. Therefore, such 
loop heat pipes should rather be referred to as pseudo “ micro LHPs ” . 
Table 1 details some of the research on pseudo “ micro LHPs ” ( Pastukhov 
et al., 2003; Maydanik et al., 2005; MEYER et al., 2003; SHIOGA et al., 
2015; Wang et al., 2008 ).
Kirshberg et al. ( Kirshberg and Micro-Cooler, 1999 ) developed a 
silicon-based miniature loop heat pipe with dimensions of 1 mm × 1 mm 
using photolithography and bonding processes. This mLHP integrates 
vapor and liquid channels into a high-purity silicon substrate, with the 
top covered by glass using bonding processes to enclose the evaporator, 
flow channels, and condenser. The capillary structure within the evap -
orator enables self-circulation. Song et al. ( Song et al., 2021 ) also 
designed an mLHP with a thickness of 1.45 mm ( Fig. 7 a), etched with 
parallel microchannels on a silicon substrate, achieving a maximum heat 
transfer flux of 37.6 W/cm
2
. Hsu et al. ( Hsu et al., 2005 )successfully 
developed a silicon-based mLHP with transparent glass as the cover 
plate. When using water and methanol as working fluids, the heat 
dissipation limits were 12.96 W and 5.85 W, respectively, with a mini -
mum operating thermal resistance of 0.106 
◦
C/W and an equivalent 
thermal conductivity 64 times that without working fluid. Watanabe 
et al. ( Watanabe et al., 2021 ) developed a metal-based mLHP ( Fig. 7 b) 
using porous glass as the wick and ethanol as the working fluids, 
achieving a maximum heat transfer performance of 15 W. Takuji et al. 
( Mizutani et al., 2022 )fabricated a 0.3 mm thick mLHP ( Fig. 7 c) for 
cooling high-performance mobile devices with high heat flux densities 
( > 5 W/cm
2
). This mLHP has a maximum heat dissipation capability of 
10 W/cm
2
, with a minimum thermal resistance and effective thermal 
conductivity of 2.51 K/W and 2438 W/m ⋅ K, respectively. Phan et al. 
( Phan and Nagano, 2022 )proposed two hybrid structures for mLHP: 
PDMS-glass and PDMS-SUS, both with high bonding strengths exceeding 
100 kPa at room temperature. Experimental results showed that the 
mLHP1 with the PDMS-glass structure did not exhibit better perfor -
mance improvement, while the mLHP with the PDMS-SUS structure 
achieved a maximum heat transfer performance of 14 W (7 W/cm
2
), 
approximately seven times that of other polymer heat pipes.
MLHP is currently a hot topic in LHP research, mainly due to the 
increasing integration and decreasing size of electronic devices. After 
the traditional heat pipe configurations are ultra-thinned, it becomes 
difficult to achieve long-distance heat transfer due to the carryover limit 
caused by the shared flow space for vapor and liquid. Their heat transfer 
limits and overall performance can no longer meet the thermal man -
agement requirements of highly integrated, high-power chips. However, 
mLHP evaporators generally adopt the vertical liquid supply configu -
ration shown in Fig. 4 (b), where the wick ’ s liquid absorption distance is 
along the length of the evaporator (typically over 20 mm), which is 
several times that of the reverse liquid supply configuration ( Fig. 4 a) 
(where the absorption distance is in the thickness direction of the 
evaporator, typically 3 – 5 mm). This poses significant challenges for the 
fabrication process and liquid absorption performance of ultra-thin 
wicks. On the other hand, due to the thinness of mLHP evaporators, 
sealing gaskets cannot be used between the wick and the shell for 
vapor – liquid separation. Instead, the evaporator cover, wick, and 
baseplate must be integrated through welding to achieve vapor – liquid 
separation and ensure smooth start-up of the mLHP.
Foldable devices have become an important trend in future elec -
tronic product design. As a key component of foldable devices, 
Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR) equipment typically 
operate with power consumption ranging from 1 to 5 W, leading to 
increasingly severe heat dissipation challenges.To address the thermal 
conduction problem caused by the cross-hinge design, we propose and 
fabricate a novel ultra-thin flexible loop heat pipe (UFLHP) with a 
thickness of only 0.7 mm, as shown in Fig. 7 d. The UFLHP uses flexible 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) for the vapor and liquid lines, accom -
modating a maximum thermal input of 5 W. ( Cui et al., 2025 ).
Table 2 shows some of the published works involving microloop heat 
pipes.
2.4. Multiple evaporator loop heat pipe
With the enhanced integration and performance of equipment in 
sectors like communications and high-performance computing, multi- 
chip application scenarios (such as CPU and GPU within servers) have 
become prevalent. Utilizing single-evaporator LHP for cooling necessi -
tates the deployment of multiple sets, thereby escalating costs and sys -
tem weight. Consequently, scholars have introduced the concept of the 
ME-LHP configuration, aiming to meet the cooling demands of multiple 
heat sources using a solitary LHP system.
Based on the configuration of the compensation chambers and 
evaporators, ME-LHP primarily presents two types: The first type 
Fig. 6. Integrated Sintering of Wick-Evaporator ( Li et al., 2011 ).
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
5 

===== PAGE 6 =====
involves multiple evaporators connected in series, sharing a common 
compensation chamber. While this design simplifies the structure, it 
poses stability challenges during startup and exhibits relatively limited 
capillary pumping and heat transfer capabilities. The second type equips 
each evaporator with an independent compensation chamber, effec -
tively addressing the shortcomings of the series-connected evaporators 
Table 1 
Published work involving evaporator improvements.
Working fluid Wick material Heat pipe 
housing 
material
Evaporator 
shape
Heat 
load ， 
W
Heat 
flux ， 
W/cm
2
Range of base plate 
temperature ，℃
Heat 
Transport 
Distance, 
mm
Optimization 
Approaches
Ref.
Ammonia Nickel Stainless steel Disk shaped   300 89 ​ Optimizing the size and 
number of vapor 
grooves
( North 
et al., 
1997 )
Nickel Stainless steel Disk shaped 65 500 62.5 86 ( Wu et al., 
2014 )
Nickel Stainless steel Disk shaped   230 23   Optimum ratio of total 
vapor grooves area to 
total heat input wall 
area
( Kiseev 
et al., 
2010 )
R245fa Nickel Copper Flat 21 10 – 160 6.1   Reinforcement ribs on 
evaporator base plate
( He et al., 
2018 )
Methanol Nickel brass Disk shaped 4.5 2 – 60 2.1 ​ Eccentric structure of 
wick equipment 
method
( Tian 
et al., 
2019 )
Ethanol with a 
concentration 
of 99.5 %/ 
Water
Copper fiber 
sintered felt
Copper Flat 18 150   93.7/93.2 Vapor Separation 
Structure
( Tang 
et al., 
2010 )
Water 100 PPI woven 
screen mesh 、 
Absorbent wool
ASTM 
C10200
Flat 7.5 25 ~ 
205
1 ~ 8.2 108 Vapor and liquid lines 
for vaporizers of 
different diameters
( Kamran 
et al., 
2021 )
Copper Copper, 
Aluminum 
alloy
Flat-oval   50 ~ 
750
5.6 ~ 83.3 58.5 ~ 87.4 Setting the steam chute 
directly on the wick
( Xiong 
et al., 
2022 )
Copper powder 
and absorbent 
wool
Coppe Disk shaped 10 200 40 63 ( Ji et al., 
2017 )
Coppe Coppe Flat 15 10 ~ 
628
1.6 ~ 100.5 130 Sintering of wick onto 
the evaporator
( Li et al., 
2011 )
Acetone UHMW 
polyethylene 
wick
Stainless steel 
grade 316L 
(ASTM)
Disk shaped 100 120 6.9 82 Circumferential 
grooves
( Riehl and 
dos Santos, 
2008 )
Fig. 7. Miniature Loop Heat Pipe Reported in Lieratures.
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
6 

===== PAGE 7 =====
( Qu et al., 2018 ). Furthermore, ME-LHP can be configured with either a 
single or multiple condensers to flexibly accommodate working envi -
ronments with multiple heat sources and evaporators. The dual evapo -
rator loop heat pipe (DE-LHP) is a variant of ME-LHP, comprising two 
evaporators, two condensers, and vapor and liquid lines. Each evapo -
rator is furnished with an independent compensation chamber and wick 
structure. DE-LHP operates primarily in two modes: parallel mode and 
thermal sharing mode. In parallel mode, the heat load is uniformly 
distributed between the two evaporators. In contrast, in thermal sharing 
mode, the heat load is concentrated on one evaporator, while the other 
evaporator functions as a condenser ( Nagano and Ku, 2007 ). Chang et al. 
( Chang et al., 2019 ) conducted visualization experiments on DE-LHP to 
deeply investigate the flow patterns and vapor – liquid distribution in 
both parallel and thermal sharing modes, revealing the intrinsic rela -
tionship between heat leakage in the condenser and the length of the 
two-phase flow. Notably, Ku et al. from NASA ( Nagano and Ku, 2007; Ku 
et al., 2005 ) conducted research on DE-LHP, designing a multi- 
evaporator loop heat pipe system that integrates two evaporators and 
two deployable radiator panels as condensers, with variable emissivity 
coatings applied to the radiator panel surfaces, as shown in Fig. 8 . In this 
system, each compensator is linked to a thermoelectric cooler, enabling 
effective cooling of the compensator during heating operations.
Scholars have conducted in-depth and extensive research in the field 
of multiple evaporators, significantly driving the rapid development of 
this area ( Chang et al., 2019; Goncharov et al., 2000; Muller et al., 2005; 
Ku and Birur, 2001; VAN OOST et al., 1995 ). Chang et al. ( Chang et al., 
2019 ) explored the operational characteristics of a dual-evaporator, 
single-condenser LHP with gravity assistance through visualization 
studies. The results indicated that, in most cases, gravity-driven LHP has 
smaller heat leakage and longer two-phase zone lengths compared to 
LHP driven by both gravity and capillary forces. Goncharov et al. 
( Goncharov et al., 2000 ) experimentally tested the start-up performance 
of LHP coupled with two evaporators and three evaporators, demon -
strating the feasibility of ME-LHP. The number of evaporators is con -
strained by factors such as LHP volume and operating temperature 
range. He et al. ( He et al., 2022 ) further innovated by designing a flat- 
oval LHP with dual evaporators, as shown in Fig. 9 (a). This system 
can operate stably under conditions where the heat source temperature 
Table 2 
The published works involving miniature loop heat pipe.
Working 
fluid
Range of use of the 
work material ，℃
Wick material Evaporator 
casing material
Evaporator 
shape
Thickness of 
evaporator, mm
Heat 
load, W
Heat 
flux, 
W/ 
cm
2
Range of 
evaporator 
temperature, ℃
Ref.
Water 20 ~ 200 Si Si Flat   0.1 ~ 
3.2
    ( Kirshberg and 
Micro-Cooler, 
1999 )
Si Si 、 Glass Flat 1.45 2 ~ 
5.54
16.7 
~ 46.2
75 ~ 203 ( Song et al., 
2021 )
Si Si 、 Glass Flat 0.8 1.14 ~ 
15.96
  31.64 ~ 115.6 ( Hsu et al., 2005 )
Etched copper Copper Flat 0.6 0.8 ~ 
20.1
0.36 
~ 8.9
33.4 ~ 108.5 ( Shioga et al., 
2020 )
Copper fibers Copper Flat 0.4 1 ~ 7.5 0.44 
~ 3.3
33.21 ~ 95.4 ( Shioga et al., 
2020 )
Sintered copper 
paste
Copper Flat 0.3 0.5 ~ 5 0.5 ~ 
5
32.1 ~ 80.2 ( Chen et al., 
2022 )
Sintered copper 
powder
Copper Flat 0.3 1 ~ 10 3.5 ~ 
10
32.9 ~ 102.1 ( Mizutani et al., 
2022 )
Ethanol 0 ~ 130 Sintered Brass 
Powder
Copper Flat 0.7 1 ~ 5 1 ~ 5 45.10 ~ 72.15 ( Cui et al., 2025 )
Shirasu porous 
glass and 
microglass paper
Stainless-steel Flat 1 4 ~ 14 1 ~ 
3.5
75.5 ~ 112.2 ( Ueno et al., 
2021 )
Sintered copper 
powder
Copper Flat 1.52/0.92 0.5 ~ 7 0.5 ~ 
7
30.1 ~ 93.4 ( Domiciano 
et al., 2022 )
Methanol 0 ~ 130 Si Si 、 Glass Flat 0.8 1.2 ~ 
14.8
  24.69 ~ 126.5 ( Hsu et al., 2005 )
Fig. 8. Schematic of Dual-Evaporators/Dual-Condensers LHP ( Chang et al., 2019 ).
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
7 

===== PAGE 8 =====
is below 100 
◦
C and the heat load ranges from 10 W-10 W to 130 W-130 
W (corresponding to a maximum heat flux of 13.52 W/cm
2
). Wu et al. 
( Wu et al., 2022 )proposed the TE-LHP configuration, which includes 
three cylindrical evaporators and one condenser, as shown in Fig. 9 (b). 
They thoroughly investigated the interactions between evaporators, 
heat load distribution, and the influence of gravity-assisted angles on the 
start-up behavior of TE-LHP. ( Chang et al., 2019 )Pastukhov et al. 
( Pastukhov and Maydanik, 2018 ) proposed a four-evaporator LHP 
configuration, comprising 1 main evaporator, 3 auxiliary evaporators, 
and 1 condenser, as shown in Fig. 9 (c). Among the 3 auxiliary evapo -
rators, 2 are arranged in the liquid line, and 1 is in the vapor line. The 
maximum heat load of the main evaporator can reach 120 W, with the 
maximum heat loads of the auxiliary evaporators in the liquid line and 
vapor line being approximately 28 % and 7.5 % of the main evaporator ’ s 
heat load, respectively. Furthermore, variations in the heat load of the 
auxiliary evaporator in the liquid line have the greatest impact on the 
main evaporator ’ s temperature, while the auxiliary evaporator in the 
vapor line has almost no effect.
However, ME-LHP faces the issue of “ thermal sharing. ” When the 
heat load of one evaporator changes, it affects the corresponding heat 
source temperatures of other evaporators, increasing the uncertainty 
and potential for unstable operation of the entire cooling system. Based 
on these considerations, Xiao et al. ( Xiao et al., 2020 ) designed a large 
flat-oval LHP with single evaporator measuring 190 mm in length and 
90 mm in width, capable of cooling six heat sources simultaneously with 
a single evaporator, as shown in Fig. 9 (d). This system can start and 
operate normally between 20 W and 140 W, keeping the heated surface 
temperature below 90 ℃ .
As evident from the above, scholars have reported that the maximum 
heat dissipation power of a single evaporator in ME-LHP is only 140 W, 
primarily due to two factors: (1) “ Thermal sharing ” among evaporators 
limits their individual maximum heat dissipation; (2) Capillary force 
provides limited driving force for working fluid circulation, making it 
challenging to overcome resistance in complex, multi-evaporator sys -
tems, leading to capillary limit issues. To address these, we propose 
novel ME-LHP designs incorporating the micro vapor-driven jet injector 
(VDJI): LHPIB (LHP with Vapor-Driven Jet Injector and Boiling Pool) 
and LHPFB (LHP Incorporating Flow Boiling), as shown in Fig. 10 (a) and 
10(b) ( Liu et al., 2022; Liu et al., 2022 ) 
、
. The VDJI offers significant 
advantages, including no external power requirement, no moving parts, 
and a simple, compact structure, as illustrated in Fig. 10 (c) ( Ahmed 
et al., 2022 ).The VDJI consists of four components: a vapor nozzle, a 
liquid nozzle, a mixing chamber, and a diffuser section. The vapor nozzle 
is a Laval nozzle with a scaled structure, and the combination of the 
mixing chamber and the diffuser section forms an overall scaled struc -
ture. The outer surface of the vapor nozzle and the inner surface of the 
mixing chamber cooperate to form an annular liquid nozzle. The 
working principle of the VDJI is as follows: The vapor expands and ac -
celerates within the nozzle, creating a local negative pressure at the 
outlet, which draws a large amount of liquid into the mixing chamber 
through the liquid nozzle for vapor – liquid mixing and condensation to 
form a vapor – liquid two-phase flow. Under critical conditions, the 
vapor – liquid two-phase flow encounters disturbances at the throat of the 
mixing chamber, generating a condensation shock wave, converting the 
vapor ’ s internal energy into pressure energy, and creating a pressuri -
zation effect. In LHPIB and LHPFB, the vapor source for the VDJI is the 
evaporator, and the source of the entrained liquid is the compensation 
chamber. The vapor entrains liquid from the compensation chamber to 
produce an augmented flow effect, generating a condensation shock 
wave and pressure increase in the diffuser section, which drives a large 
amount of liquid into the boiling pool, resulting in flow boiling heat 
transfer. Due to the augmented flow and pressurization effects of the 
VDJI, the capillary limit problem of traditional ME-LHP is overcome, 
making the boiling pool the wick component for high heat flux dissi -
pation. Its maximum heat dissipation power exceeds 500 W (under 
conditions of a 200 W evaporator power), with a heat flux exceeding 
100 W/cm
2
. Additionally, by preparing a micro-pillar-porous structure 
on the boiling pool baseplate of LHPFB, the flow boiling heat dissipation 
performance within the boiling pool is further enhanced, reducing the 
baseplate temperature by 9.7 ℃ under 500 W conditions, with a boiling 
pool thermal resistance of 0.035 K/W ( Liu et al., 2023 ).
With the augmented flow and pressurization effects of the VDJI, 
LHPIB and LHPFB achieve efficient heat dissipation for multiple high- 
power heat sources, solving the thermal sharing and capillary limit 
Fig. 9. Structural Diagram of ME-LHP.
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
8 

===== PAGE 9 =====
problems of traditional ME-LHP. They exhibit excellent heat dissipation 
performance with a maximum heat dissipation power exceeding 500 W 
and a heat flux above 100 W/cm
2
, providing new ideas for the config -
uration optimization of ME-LHP.
Table 3 shows some of the literature on multi-heat source loop heat 
pipes.
2.5. Impact of working fluid
The working fluid plays a crucial role in the performance of the LHP. 
An optimal working fluid should exhibit excellent heat transfer prop -
erties, physicochemical stability, wettability, a high latent heat of 
vaporization, and surface tension, along with compatibility with the 
wick structure and heat pipe shell materials. Additionally, the choice of 
working fluid must take into account external environmental conditions 
and the appropriate operating temperature range of the controlled ob -
ject. Following the traditional classification approach for heat pipes, 
LHP can be divided into cryogenic, moderate-temperature, and high- 
temperature types based on their working fluids ( Chi, 1976; Mantelli, 
2021 ). Cryogenic LHPs (CLHPs) employ permanent gases like hydrogen, 
neon, oxygen and nitrogen with normal boiling points below 122 K. 
These are further classified into conventional cryogenic LHPs operating 
at 150 – 250 K and deep cryogenic LHPs below 120 K. CLHP technology 
has been successfully applied in various international space exploration 
missions for spacecraft thermal control systems. For example, infrared 
sensors on remote sensing satellites typically operate at 20 – 30 K with 
Fig. 10. Structural Diagram of the Coupling of Boiling Heat Transfer and Loop Heat Pipe.
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
9 

===== PAGE 10 =====
design environments potentially below   100 
◦
C, requiring low-freezing- 
point fluids like ammonia and propylene to prevent operational failures 
such as startup issues or cryogenic expansion ( Yang et al., 2022; Anand 
et al., 2018 ). Moderate-temperature LHPs cover the 122 – 628 K range 
using common refrigerants including methanol, acetone, water and 
fluorocarbons at atmospheric pressure. Typical applications include 
digital chips that require junction temperatures below 100 
◦
C in normal 
operation with design environments of   40 – 70 
◦
C, where fluids like 
deionized water, ethanol, methanol and acetone are commonly selected. 
High-temperature LHPs utilize liquid metals such as mercury, lithium, 
and cesium with boiling points exceeding 628 K. Current research on 
LHPs primarily focuses on cryogenic and moderate-temperature sys -
tems, while studies on high-temperature LHPs remain relatively limited.
To quantitatively evaluate the performance of working fluids, May -
danik et al. ( Maydanik et al., 2018 ) introduced the concept of the 
Quality Factor, with the calculation formula as follows: 
K
l
=
ρ
l
σ h
fg
μ
l
(1) 
Where: ρ
l 
is the liquid-phase density, σ is the surface tension, h
fg 
is the 
latent heat of vaporization, and μ
l 
is the liquid-phase viscosity.
Formula (1) primarily considers the density, surface tension, latent 
heat of vaporization, and viscosity of the working fluid in the liquid 
state. A higher K
l 
value indicates better heat dissipation capability when 
the working fluid is applied in the LHP. We used formula (1) to calculate 
the quality factors of typical working fluids, including liquid metals such 
as Li, Na, and K ( Liao et al., 2018 ), ambient working fluids such as water 
( Tang et al., 2010; Kamran et al., 2021; Xiong et al., 2022; Ji et al., 
2017 ), ammonia ( Wu et al., 2022; Pastukhov and Maydanik, 2018 ), 
methanol ( Hsu et al., 2005; Anand et al., 2020 ), ethanol ( Anand et al., 
2020 ), and several typical fluorinated refrigerants, and low-temperature 
working fluids such as hydrogen, neon, ethane ( Liu et al., 2020 ), 
ethylene ( Liu et al., 2020 ), and propylene ( Liu et al., 2020 ), as shown in 
Fig. 11 .
Li has the highest quality factor in Fig. 11 (a), followed by sodium. In 
addition, the general requirements for metallic working fluids include 
low melting points and saturation pressures to avoid drastic sublimation 
of the system during heating to the triple-phase point. As can be seen in 
Fig. 11 (b), water has the highest quality factor in the range of 10 to 
80 
◦
C, followed by ammonia, methanol and ethanol. Maydanik et al. 
( Maydanik et al., 2020 )tested the heat transfer limit of the same device 
using water, methanol, and ethanol as working fluids, and the results 
showed that the maximum heat loads they could achieve were 900 W, 
380 W, and 320 W, respectively, with corresponding heat flux densities 
of 56.3 W/cm
2
, 23.8 W/cm
2
, and 20.0 W/cm
2
. This study validated the 
rationality and guiding significance of the Quality Factor expression. 
Typical fluorinated refrigerants R134a, R245fa, and HFE-7100, which 
have been widely used in electronic device thermal management in 
recent years, have Quality Factors far lower than the above-mentioned 
traditional working fluids. However, despite their lower Quality Fac -
tors, fluorinated refrigerants have low freezing points, are non-toxic and 
non-flammable, and possess excellent electrical insulation properties, 
making them promising for civil applications where heat flux density is 
not high and reliability in low-temperature environments is a concern. 
Fig. 11 (c) shows that ethane has the highest quality factor and hydrogen 
and neon have the lowest quality factors. Working fluids in the deep 
cryogenic region include helium at 3 – 5 K ( Ku and Robinson, 2016 ), 
hydrogen at 20 – 30 K ( HOANG et al., 2005; Hoang et al., 2003; Guo 
et al., 2019 ), neon at 30 – 40 K ( Guo et al., 2019; Bugby et al., 2003 ), 
oxygen ( KHRUSTALEV and SEMENOV, 0000 ) and nitrogen ( Hoang 
et al., 2003; Guo et al., 2019; Bugby et al., 2003 ) at 80 – 110 K, and argon 
at 100 – 130 K. The working fluids in the deep cryogenic region include 
helium, hydrogen, neon, and argon. There are few options for alterna -
tive working fluids within each subdivided temperature zone, and the 
performance of the loop heat pipe heat transfer limit continues to 
decline at deep cryogenic temperatures. Working fluids suitable for low- 
temperature loop heat pipes include ethylene, ethane, propylene, pro -
pane, and ammonia, with ethane and ethylene requiring higher system 
pressures and a higher risk of safety incidents. Therefore, ammonia and 
propylene are the main component materials in space applications of 
cryogenic annular heat pipes.
Figs. 12 and 13 summarize the heat transfer performance of LHP 
using deionized water, methanol, acetone, and ethanol as working 
fluids. It can be seen that due to deionized water ’ s high Quality Factor, 
its ultimate heat dissipation power and heat flux density are higher than 
those of other working fluids. Through the innovation and optimization 
efforts of many scholars, the ultimate heat dissipation power of LHP 
using deionized water as the working fluid can now approach 1000 W, 
with a minimum thermal resistance of less than 0.1 K/W; when the 
baseplate temperature is 85 ℃ , the maximum heat dissipation power of 
deionized water LHP can reach around 800 W. However, the ultimate 
heat dissipation power of alcohol-based working fluids (methanol, 
acetone, and ethanol) is less than 400 W, and when the baseplate tem -
perature is below 85 ℃ , it is only 300 W. Additionally, because alcohol- 
based working fluids have a lower latent heat of vaporization, they are 
easier to start at low power, so their overall low-power performance is 
better than that of deionized water. Table 4 lists the applications of 
various working fluids in LHP.
As the integration, power consumption, and lightweight demands of 
electronic devices continue to rise, mLHP has emerged as a significant 
trend and focal point of research within the field of LHP development. 
Presently, mLHP primarily employs water and ethanol, which boast high 
Quality Factors, as the working fluids. Fig. 14 compiles a comparison of 
the heat transfer performance of mLHP reported in various literature 
sources. Notably, the overall performance of mLHP utilizing water as the 
working fluid surpasses that of ethanol by a considerable margin.
The working fluid is crucial in determining LHP ’ s heat exchange 
Table 3 
Multi-heat source loop heat pipe.
Research Group Working 
Fluid
Number of heat 
sources
Number of 
evaporators
Evaporator Casing 
Material
Maximum power of each 
evaporator /W
He et al. ( He et al., 2022 ) Water 2 2 Stainless-steel 10 – 130
Wu et al. ( Wu et al., 2022 ) Ammonia 3 3 Stainless-steel E1 = E2 = E3 = 100
Xiao et al. ( Xiao et al., 2020 ) Methanol 6 1 Aluminum alloy E = 140
Pastukhov et al. ( Pastukhov and Maydanik, 
2018 )
Ammonia 4 4 Stainless-steel E1 = 120, 
E2 = 33, 
E3 = 9, 
E4 = 9
Liu et al. ( Liu et al., 2022 ) Water 2 2 Copper E1 = 250 
E2 = 550
Liu et al. ( Liu et al., 2022 ) Water 2 2 Copper E1 = 238 
E2 = 507
Liu et al. ( Liu et al., 2023 ) Water 2 2 Copper E1 = 200 
E2 = 500
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
10 

===== PAGE 11 =====
efficiency, driving researchers to explore innovative substances. By 
using organic working fluids, nanofluids, and self-wetting fluids, the 
critical heat flux of LHP has significantly increased. Nanofluids, a novel 
type of fluid formed by the uniform dispersion and suspension of 
nanoparticles in a base fluid, exhibit superior thermal properties 
( Stephen et al., 2019; JOSE and BABY, 2019 ). Wan et al. ( Wan et al., 
2015 )reported that using a 1.0 wt% nanofluid reduced startup time, 
transient phase duration, and decreased evaporator wall temperature 
and total thermal resistance by 12.8 % and 21.7 %, respectively, 
compared to deionized water. Furthermore, they identified 1.5 wt% as 
the optimal concentration. Jose et al. ( JOSE and BABY, 2019 ) focused on 
the impact of silicon-water nanofluids on the performance of LHP. 
Experimental results demonstrated that, when using a 2 % nano -
concentration of silica-water nanofluid as the working fluid, the evap -
orator temperature was reduced by 27 % compared to deionized water. 
Furthermore, the incorporation of nanoparticles enables the LHP to 
achieve steady state more rapidly. Nonetheless, challenges persist 
regarding the long-term dispersion stability of nanofluids and the risk of 
wick clogging. Self-wetting fluids, characterized by their unique surface 
tension properties, spontaneously flow from the cold end to the hot end 
( Hu et al., 2015; Francescantonio et al., 2008 ), enhancing wick ab -
sorption and mitigating dry-out phenomena. Wu et al. ( Wu et al., 2017 ) 
used a 0.1 % mass fraction of 1-heptanol aqueous solution in a flat-oval 
LHP, achieving a 70 % increase in critical heat flux and a 40 % reduction 
in total thermal resistance compared to pure water. Boubaker et al. 
( Boubaker et al., 2019 )further validated the feasibility of self-wetting 
fluids as efficient working fluids for LHP. For ground applications, the 
working fluid must be non-toxic, non-flammable, and, from an opera -
tional or storage perspective, possess a low freezing point to withstand 
cold environments. In addition, measures need to be taken to prevent 
electrical short circuits caused by leakage of working fluids Fluoro -
carbon compounds like R134a, R245fa, and HFE-7100 are promising 
candidates due to their low freezing and boiling points, non-toxicity, 
non-flammability, and high electrical insulation. These working fluids 
actually have found applications in data center liquid cooling and RF 
electronic system cooling. Wang et al. ( Wang, 2020 )investigated 
R134a ’ s cooling performance in LHP, achieving a minimum total ther -
mal resistance of 0.55 ℃ /W with rapid and stable working temperature 
changes. R134a not only responds swiftly but also demonstrates excel -
lent anti-gravity capabilities.
3. Performance optimization of loop heat Pipe2.1 capillary limit
The capillary force generated by the wick is the main driving force 
for the autonomous operation of LHP, and it must exceed the total 
pressure drop across all system components ( Ramasamy et al., 2018 ). As 
the thermal load increases, the circulatory pressure drop rises steeply 
until the capillary force can no longer overcome the flow resistance, 
resulting in wick dehydration and the LHP reaching its capillary limit 
( Yang et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2022 ).The capillary limit is a crucial heat 
transfer limit and a primary consideration in LHP design, expressed as: 
Δ P
cap
⩾Δ P
total
= Δ P
vl
+ Δ P
ll
+ Δ P
vg
+ Δ P
w
+ Δ P
CC
+ Δ P
con
± Δ P
g
(2) 
Where: Δ P
cap 
represents the capillary force of the wick, Δ P
total 
represents 
the resistance in various LHP parts, Δ P
vl 
represents the along-path and 
local resistance losses in the vapor line, Δ P
ll 
represents the along-path 
and local resistance losses in the liquid line, Δ P
vg 
represents the resis -
tance loss in the vapor channel, and Δ P
w 
represents the capillary resis -
tance, Δ P
CC 
is the resistance loss in the compensation chamber, Δ P
con 
is 
the pressure loss of the work mass in the condenser, and Δ P
g 
is the 
gravitational pressure difference exerted by gravity on the working 
fluid, Δ P
g 
depends on the direction of gravity.
The capillary force generated by the wick is given by the Young- 
Laplace equation: 
Δ P
cap
=
2 σ cos θ
r
eff
(3) 
Where: r
eff 
is the average effective pore radius of the wick, σ is the liquid 
surface tension, and cos θ is the cosine of the apparent contact angle of 
Fig. 11. Variation of Quality Factor with Operating Temperature for Different 
Working fluids.
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
11 

===== PAGE 12 =====
the liquid on the wick material surface.
The along-path resistance loss in the liquid line can be expressed as: 
Δ P
μ
ll
= 128
μ
l
L
ll
π d
4
ll
ρ
l
h
fg
Q (4) 
Where: μ
l 
is the dynamic viscosity of the liquid, d
ll 
is the inner diameter 
of the liquid line, L
ll 
is the total length of the liquid line, h
fg 
is the latent 
heat of vaporization of the working fluid, ρ
l 
is the density of the liquid, 
and Q is the heating power.
Similarly, for the vapor line: 
Δ P
μ
vl
= ζ
vl
( Re )
L
vl
2 d
vl
ρ
v
(
1
S
vl
h
fg
)
2
Q
2
(5) 
Where: d
vl 
is the inner diameter of the vapor line, L
vl 
is its total length, μ
v 
is the dynamic viscosity of the vapor, ρ
v 
is the density of the vapor, S
vl 
is 
the cross-sectional area of the vapor line, Q is the heating power, and ζ
vl 
is the friction coefficient in the vapor line, related to the Reynolds 
number (or the flow state within the pipe).
Local resistance losses can be calculated as: 
Δ P
local
= ζ
local
ρν
2
2
(6) 
Where: ζ
local 
is the local friction coefficient, typically ζ
local 
= 0.3 for 90
◦
bends.
For local resistance losses in both liquid and vapor lines: 
Δ P
local
ll
= N
bend
ζ
bend
1
2 ρ
l
(
1
h
fg
S
ll
)
2
Q
2
(7) 
Δ P
local
ν l
= N
bend
ζ
bend
1
2 ρ
v
(
1
h
fg
S
ν l
)
2
Q
2
(8) 
Where: N
bend 
is the number of bends in the pipeline.
The pressure drop in the vapor channel is given by: 
Δ P
μ
vg
= ζ
vl
( Re )
L
vg
4 N
vg
d
vg
ρ
v
(
1
S
vg
h
fg
)
2
Q
2
(9) 
Where: L
vg 
is the length of the vapor channel, S
vg 
is its cross-sectional 
area, N
vg 
is the number of vapor channels, and d
vg 
is the equivalent 
diameter of the vapor channel.
The flow resistance of the liquid in the wick can be calculated as: 
Δ P
w
=
μ
L
δ
w
K
w
A
w
ρ
L
h
fg
Q (10) 
Where: μ is the dynamic viscosity in Pa ⋅ s; δ is the thickness in meters; ρ is 
the density in kg/m
3
, and K is the permeability in m
2
. Subscripts w, v, 
and L denote wick, vapor, and liquid, respectively. For a sintered powder 
consisting of uniform spherical particles of diameter d, the permeability 
K can be calculated by the following equation: 
Fig. 12. Performance Curve of LHP Using Deionized Water as Working fluid.
Fig. 13. Performance Curves of LHP with Other Working fluids (Methanol, Acetone, and Ethanol).
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
12 

===== PAGE 13 =====
K
w
=
d
2
ε
2
C ( 1   ε )
2
(11) 
Where: d is the powder particle size or wire mesh diameter, ε is the wick 
porosity, and C is the K-C constant influenced by factors such as wick 
preparation process and powder particle size. For spherical powder 
sintered wicks, C is generally taken as 180 or 120 ( Ergun, 1952; Faghri, 
1995; Weibel et al., 2010 ), with some scholars recommending C = 150 
Table 4 
Application of common working fluids in high power loop heat pipes with flat evaporator.
Working 
fluid
Range of use of 
the work 
material ，℃
Wick material Heat pipe housing 
material
Evaporator 
shape
Heat 
load ， 
W
Heat 
flux ， 
W/cm
2
Range of base plate 
temperature ，℃
Heat 
Transport 
Distance, mm
Ref.
Deionized 
water
20 ~ 200 Copper Copper Flat 50 ~ 
550
2 ~ 22 47.6 ~ 114.6 323 ( Wang et al., 
2022 )
Copper Copper Flat-oval 20 ~ 
900
1.25 ~ 
56.3
39.2 ~ 97.7 330 ( Maydanik 
et al., 2020 )
Copper Copper, Aluminum 
alloy
Flat-oval 50 ~ 
750
5.6 ~ 
83.3
58.5 ~ 87.4 300 ( Xiong et al., 
2022 )
Brass Copper, Stainless 
steel, 
Polycarbonate
Flat 50 ~ 
475
6.13 ~ 
68.2
66.3 ~ 98.7 290 ( Liu et al., 2022 )
Copper Copper Flat 20 ~ 
300
5 ~ 75 34.6 ~ 68.6 86 ( Tharayil, 2019 )
Copper Copper Flat 20 ~ 
380
5 ~ 95 44.6 ~ 124.9 127 ( Tharayil et al., 
2016 )
Copper Copper, 
Polycarbonate
Flat 25 ~ 
550
4 ~ 88 48.4 ~ 127.0 374 ( Zhou and Li, 
2018 )
Copper Copper Flat-oval 20 ~ 
600
2.2 ~ 
66.7
50.5 ~ 96.8 305 ( Chernysheva 
et al., 2015 )
Stainless steel Copper, Stainless 
steel
Flat 50 ~ 
550
4.4 ~ 
48.6
78.6 ~ 147.8 280 ( Liu et al., 2021 )
Ammonia   60 ~ 100 Nickel Copper, Stainless 
steel
Disk-shaped 5 ~ 
300
0.4 ~ 
23.9
22.4 ~ 80.3 330 ( Maydanik 
et al., 2017 )
Nickel Stainless steel Flat 6 ~ 
330
0.4 ~ 
20.6
21.7 ~ 40.8 1479 ( Zhang et al., 
2019 )
Nickel Stainless steel Disk-shaped 2.5 ~ 
180
0.2 ~ 
10.8
6 ~ 42.9 1620 ( Zhang et al., 
2020 )
Methanol 0 ~ 130 Copper Copper Flat-oval 20 ~ 
380
1.25 ~ 
23.8
26.5 ~ 104.8 330 ( Maydanik 
et al., 2020 )
Stainless steel Copper, Brass Flat 30 ~ 
190
6.2 ~ 
39.3
63.1 ~ 83.6 246 ( Liu et al., 2020 )
Stainless steel Brass Flat 20 ~ 
240
1.6 ~ 
19.1
59.4 ~ 86.7 320 ( Wang et al., 
2014 )
Polypropylene Stainless steel Flat 3 ~ 
130
0.2 ~ 
10.6
57.8 ~ 107.4 500 ( Baek and Jung, 
2022 )
Acetone 0 ~ 120 Stainless steel Copper, Stainless 
steel
Flat 60 ~ 
260
4.2 ~ 
18.2
61.1 ~ 90.6 550 ( Odagiri and 
Nagano, 2019 )
Stainless steel Stainless steel, 
Aluminum
Flat 50 ~ 
280
3.5 ~ 
19.6
46.2 ~ 78.5 110 ( A k o, b h n., 
2019 )
Ethanol 0 ~ 130 Copper Copper Flat-oval 20 ~ 
320
1.25 ~ 
20.0
29.4 ~ 120.0 330 ( Maydanik 
et al., 2020 )
fiber Copper, Aluminum 
alloy
Flat 30 ~ 
200
0.6 ~ 
4.0
45.8 ~ 97.8   ( Ling et al., 
2016 )
Fig. 14. Baseplate Temperature and Thermal Resistance of an Ultra-Thin Loop Heat Pipe under Different Heat Flux Densities (Working fluids: Water and Ethanol).
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
13 

===== PAGE 14 =====
( Deng et al., 2013; Xu and Yu, 2008 ).
The pressure drop in the condenser Δ P
con 
can be expressed as: 
Δ P
con
= Δ P
v , c
+ Δ P
l , c
=
32 μ
L
L
v , c
h
fg
d
2
c
ρ
v
A
c
Q +
32 μ
L
L
l , c
h
fg
d
2
c
ρ
l
A
c
Q (12) 
where: Δ P
v,c 
is the vapor-phase pressure drop in the condenser, Δ P
l,c 
is 
the liquid-phase pressure drop in the condenser, L
v,c 
is the length of the 
vapor-phase region in the condenser tube, L
l,c 
is the length of the liquid- 
phase region in the condenser tube, d
c 
is the diameter of the condenser 
tube, A
c 
is the cross-sectional area of the vapor flow path.
The pressure drop in the compensation chamber Δ P
cc 
can be calcu -
lated as: 
Δ P
cc
=
ζ
2 ρ
(
Q
h
fg
A
2
)
2
(13) 
where: ζ is the local resistance coefficient, A
2 
is the cross-sectional 
area after the variable cross-section, u
2 
is the corresponding flow 
velocity.
The gravitational pressure difference Δ P
g 
acting on the working fluid 
in the tube is given by: 
Δ P
g
= ρ
l
gh (14) 
where: h is the actual anti-gravity height of the loop heat pipe. When 
the evaporator is positioned above the condenser, gravity acts as a 
resistance Δ P g; when the evaporator is below the condenser, gravity 
provides an additional driving force Δ P g.
Basic conditions for the LHP to work properly: 
Δ P
cap
⩾Δ P
total
= Δ P
μ
vl
+ Δ P
μ
ll
+ Δ P
local
vl
+ Δ P
local
ll
+ Δ P
vg
+ Δ P
w
+ Δ P
cc
+ Δ P
con
± Δ P
g
(15) 
Δ P
cap
= b
1
⋅ Q + b
2
⋅ Q
2
+ b
3
(16) 
Where: 
b
1
= 128
μ
l
L
ll
π d
4
ll
ρ
l
h
fg
+
μ
L
δ
w
K
w
A
w
ρ
L
h
fg
+
32 μ
L
L
v , c
h
fg
d
2
c
ρ
v
A
c
+
32 μ
L
L
l , c
h
fg
d
2
c
ρ
l
A
c
+
ζ
2 ρ
(
1
h
fg
A
2
)
2
(17) 
b
2
= ζ
vl
L
vl
2 d
vl
ρ
v
(
1
S
vl
h
fg
)
2
+ N
bend
ζ
bend
1
2 ρ
l
(
1
h
fg
S
ll
)
2
+ N
bend
ζ
bend
1
2 ρ
v
(
1
S
vl
h
fg
)
2
+ ζ
vl
L
vg
4 N
vg
d
vg
ρ
v
(
1
S
vg
h
fg
)
2
(18) 
b
3
= ρ
l
gh (19) 
Thus, the capillary limit of LHP can be expressed as: 
Q
max
=
  b
1
+
̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅ ̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅ ̅
b
2
1
+ 4 ⋅ b
2
⋅ ( Δ P
cap
  b
3
)
√
2 ⋅ b
2
(20) 
Equation (20) shows that wick characteristics, such as average 
effective pore radius, porosity, and permeability, are critical in deter -
mining the heat transfer limit of LHP. The average effective pore radius 
determines the maximum capillary force the wick can generate, while 
porosity and permeability indirectly affect the flow resistance within the 
wick, significantly influencing the liquid absorption rate. As a result, 
current international research on enhancing LHP performance primarily 
focuses on wick improvement.
3.1. Performance optimization of loop heat pipes
3.1.1. Wick optimization
The dimensions of the wick have a significant impact on the overall 
performance of the LHP ( Weibel et al., 2010 ). Liu ( Liu et al., 2007 ) et al. 
investigated the effect of wick thickness on LHP performance by opti -
mizing it and found that as the wick thickness increases, the coordina -
tion between the velocity field and temperature field of the working 
fluid inside the wick improves, enhancing LHP performance; however, 
with further increases in thickness, the resistance of the working fluid 
within the wick increases, leading to a decrease in mass flow rate and a 
subsequent reduction in LHP performance. Equation (16) demonstrates 
that optimizing pore size distribution can enhance the capillary limit, 
thereby boosting LHP performance. We have experimentally and theo -
retically investigated the effects of powder size, pore-forming agent 
concentration, and preparation methods on the internal porous structure 
and capillary performance of wicks. The results showed that with the 
increase in particle size and pore-forming agent concentration and the 
decrease in preparation pressure, the capillary performance was 
enhanced due to the improvement in the connectivity of internal pores. 
However, the strength of the wick decreased. ( Yang et al., 2024 ) An 
increase in average pore size reduces the flow resistance of the working 
fluid within the wick, but according to the Laplace-Young equation, the 
capillary force of the wick decreases with an increase in average pore 
size. Therefore, the design of the wick must balance the relationship 
between capillary force and flow resistance. Increasingly, researchers 
are proposing bi-porous wick structures, where larger pores reduce 
liquid flow resistance and increase vapor escape paths under high heat 
loads, while smaller pores provide greater capillary force ( Zhao et al., 
2021 ).
Currently, scholars typically prepare high-performance bi-porous 
wicks by adding pore-forming agents. There is a wide variety of pore- 
forming agents, such as volatile or combustible ones like starch ( Chen 
et al., 2011; Pabst et al., 2009 ), polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) ( Xia 
et al., 2011; He et al., 2004 ), and microcrystalline cellulose (MCC) ( Xu 
et al., 2012 ). However, these agents can release significant amounts of 
gas or volatile substances during the sintering process, which may lead 
to cracks in the wick and cause an uneven distribution of pore sizes. A 
common method for preparing bi-porous wicks is to add soluble salts 
like sodium carbonate (Na
2
CO
3
) ( Li et al., 2012 ) or sodium chloride 
(NaCl) ( Xu et al., 2012; Cao et al., 2021 ) as pore-forming agents to the 
raw materials during the wick sintering process. The preparation process 
and SEM image of the wick are shown in Fig. 15 ( Zhang et al., 2020 ). The 
content of the pore-forming agent, compaction pressure, sintering 
holding time, sintering temperature, and particle size of the pore- 
forming agent.
To address the drawback of the conventional wick structure and 
enhance the performance, North et al. ( North et al., 1997 ) first proposed 
a bidisperse powder metal wick, featuring dual capillary radii. The wick 
is formed by packing together porous clusters which consist of small 
particles. The smaller characteristic capillary radius is related to the 
pores between the smaller powder particles and the larger capillary 
radius is related to the size of the pores between the clusters. Qu et al. 
( Qu et al., 2016 ) conducted theoretical and experimental research on the 
porosity, permeability, and other properties of bi-porous nickel powder 
wicks based on five key sintering parameters: pore-forming agent con -
tent, pore-forming agent particle size, loading pressure, sintering tem -
perature, and holding time. Bi-porous wicks can also be prepared by 
sintering metal powders of different particle sizes ( Xu et al., 2020 ), with 
a structure as shown in Fig. 16 (a). Some scholars prepare bi-porous 
wicks by directly and tightly bonding wicks of different particle sizes 
( Yang et al., 2022 ), with a structure as shown in Fig. 16 (b). When the 
side of the wick with smaller particles is closer to the heating surface and 
the side with larger particles is closer to the compensation chamber, it 
can effectively reduce the evaporator temperature and increase the 
critical heat flux.
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
14 

===== PAGE 15 =====
Improving the wick ’ s hydrophilicity enhances its liquid absorption 
without altering pore size distribution, thus boosting the capillary limit. 
Nanoscaling the wick surface is a standard approach. Guo et al. ( Guo 
et al., 2020 )oxidized a copper wick ’ s surface with H
2
O
2
, creating a 
nanostructure ( Fig. 17 ) that improved hydrophilicity and absorption. 
Experiments revealed that at 90
◦
, 0
◦
, and   90
◦
tilts, the treated wick 
increased critical heat flux by 25 %, 25 %, and 50 % respectively, while 
reducing the evaporator baseplate ’ s operating temperature and 
enhancing temperature uniformity. Li et al. ( Li et al., 2018 )coated the 
surface of a copper wick with nanostructures through alloying- 
Fig. 15. Preparation of double pore size wick by the pore-forming agent method ( Li et al., 2012 ).
Fig. 16. Preparation of Bi-Porous Wicks Using Pore-Forming Agents.
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
15 

===== PAGE 16 =====
dealloying treatment and found that the optimal duration for dealloying 
treatment was 24 h. Liu et al. ( Liu et al., 2019 ) coated carbon fibers with 
copper using an electroless copper plating process to improve their hy -
drophilicity, and the LHP with this wick operated stably under heat 
loads ranging from 15-75 W. Lv et al. ( Lv and Li, 2017 ) adopted a new 
ultra-hydrophilic sintered copper mesh screen wick structure, which 
provided strong capillary force and low flow resistance for the working 
fluids. Experimental results indicated that this structure could withstand 
490 W/cm
2 
without drying out.
Of all LHP components, the wick is the most challenging to prepare. 
In conventional-sized LHP, scholars use metal meshes ( Tharayil et al., 
2016 ), metal foams ( Zhou et al., 2016 ), polymers ( Riehl and Siqueira, 
2006; Nagano and Nishigawara, 2011 ), ceramics ( Santos et al., 2012; Xu 
et al., 2013 )
]
, and metal powders ( Li et al., 2015; Liu et al., 2015; Xin 
et al., 2010 ) for sintering wicks. Metal powder sintering is currently the 
preferred method for wick preparation due to its simplicity and cost- 
effectiveness. The resulting wicks exhibit high capillary force and me -
chanical strength ( Ahmed et al., 2007 ), but suffer from issues like un -
even, highly random pore size distribution, and closed pores.
Some researchers have developed wicks using innovative processing 
techniques and new materials. For instance, 3D printing technology 
stands out for its ability to precisely control the geometric dimensions of 
the internal wick channels, enabling the fabrication of liquid-wicking 
cores with specific pore structure characteristics tailored to various 
operational requirements. ( Esarte et al., 2017 )Hu et al. ( Hu et al., 2020 ) 
used metal 3D printing technology to prepare a double-layer wick with 
regular shapes and controllable pore distribution, and studied the 
startup and operating characteristics of the LHP system with a metal 3D- 
printed double-layer composite wick of different pore sizes. Experi -
mental research showed that a composite wick with an evaporation 
layer pore size of 100 μ m and a liquid absorption layer pore size of 200 
μ m had a higher heat transfer coefficient and heat load. Jafari et al. 
( Jafari et al., 2018 ) utilized selective laser melting (SLM) technology to 
fabricate optimized wicks with high permeability and large capillary 
channels, systematically investigating the wicking behavior of 3D- 
printed stainless steel porous structures. Their results demonstrated 
that the designed wicks exhibited significantly enhanced heat transfer 
performance compared to conventional sintered powder, mesh screen, 
and composite wicks. The 3D-printed multi-pore-size composite wicks 
possess a fully interconnected three-dimensional reticulated porous 
structure that offers several advantages over traditional loop heat pipe 
wicks, including lightweight characteristics, reduced flow resistance, 
enhanced capillary pumping force and permeability, large specific sur -
face area, as well as superior thermal conductivity and structural 
integrity. These exceptional properties render them particularly suitable 
for extreme operating conditions involving high temperatures and 
strong corrosive environments, showing promising application potential 
in aerospace, radar systems, and high-heat-flux electronic cooling. 
However, certain limitations remain, such as higher manufacturing 
costs, inherent pore size constraints, and material selection challenges 
that require further investigation and development to overcome.
Putra et al. ( Putra et al., 2014 )first examined and analyzed the 
application of biomaterials (collars) as wicks and nanofluids as working 
fluids in LHP. The results indicated that, compared to sintered powder 
wicks, the use of the biomaterial Tabulate reduced thermal resistance by 
56.3 %. Li et al. ( Li and Zhang, 2022 )prepared a wick with strong liquid 
absorption capacity by forming different numbers, depths, and widths of 
grooves on nanocarbon foam, with a structure as shown in Fig. 18 (a). 
The grooved nanocarbon foam wick, due to enhanced permeability and 
feeding effects, achieved a rise height of 45 mm within 14 s and had an 
ultra-high porosity of 0.99. Buffone et al. ( Buffone et al., 2016 )bonded a 
graphene coating to a nickel wick to obtain greater capillary pressure, 
and experiments showed that the addition of graphene significantly 
increased capillary pressure by at least 3.5 times. Cao et al. ( Cao et al., 
2022 ) synthesized a quaternary MAX phase Ti
3
(Al,Si)C
2 
bi-porous wick 
using vacuum sintering, which had better strength and lower thermal 
conductivity than conventional nickel wicks. Nagano et al. ( Mitomi and 
Nagano, 2014 ) used polytetrafluoroethylene porous material as the 
wick, with a structure as shown in Fig. 18 (b). Nakamura et al. 
( Nakamura et al., 2022 ) used submicron-scale porous glass material as 
the primary wick and installed a hydrophilic polytetrafluoroethylene 
wick on the back of the main wick to reduce heat leakage. Compared to 
metal wicks, it is easier to process and lower in cost. Its low thermal 
conductivity minimizes heat leakage from the evaporator to the 
compensation chamber, but under high heat flux, significant thermal 
resistance arises between the evaporator shell and wick, causing 
Fig. 17. Electron Micrographs of Wicks before and after H
2
O
2 
Oxidation Treatment ( Guo et al., 2020 ).
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
16 

===== PAGE 17 =====
performance decline. Hu et al. ( Hu et al., 2023 )chose a lightweight 
polyethersulfone membrane as the LHP ’ s porous wick, featuring a 
unique bi-porous structure ( Fig. 18 (c)) that synergistically enhances 
capillary force and permeability. This wick matches the heat transfer of 
sintered nickel powder wicks, outperforms copper mesh wicks, and is 
only 1/13 the weight. Solomon et al. ( Solomon et al., 2020 )created a 
highly absorbent wick by carbonizing wood ( Fig. 18 (d)) for LHP use. Its 
heat transfer performance rivals traditional wicks, but structural dura -
bility requires further testing.
Table 5 summarizes some of the methods for increasing the capillary 
limit.
3.1.2. Methods to promote return of working fluids
Methods to promote return of working fluids can enhance the heat 
transfer limit of LHP. Wang et al. ( Wang et al., 2022 ) installed a sec -
ondary wick in the liquid line to facilitate the reflux of subcooled liquid 
in the condenser, with the structure shown in Fig. 19 (a). Experimental 
results indicated that the secondary wick increased the maximum heat 
load of the LHP from 100 W to 550 W. In our earlier work, we added a 
bypass line between the vapor line of a ME-LHP and the outlet line of the 
condenser ( Fig. 19 b). This utilized the vapor pressure head generated by 
capillary force to assist in the reflux of liquid at the condenser outlet, 
resolving the issue of LHP startup pulsation and reducing thermal 
resistance by over 10 % ( Liu et al., 2020 ). Jung et al. ( TUHIN et al., 
2018 ) added a bypass between the vapor channel and the compensation 
chamber in a single-evaporator LHP, using bypass vapor pressure to 
push liquid into the wick, thereby delaying wick dry-out ( Fig. 19 c). Baek 
et al. ( Baek and Jung, 2022 )found that the bypass operation mode re -
distributes the working fluid remaining in the vapor channel to the 
compensation chamber, which can prevent startup pulsation issues to a 
certain extent.
Utilizing gravity-assisted and pump-assisted working fluid circula -
tion are also effective methods to enhance the heat transfer limit of LHP. 
Gravity-assisted circulation is achieved by positioning the condenser 
higher than the evaporator. Tuhin et al. ( TUHIN et al., 2018 ) compared 
the performance of LHP under horizontal and gravity-assisted condi -
tions, with experiments showing that horizontal LHP has lower heat 
transfer capacity than gravity-assisted LHP due to higher pressure losses. 
Bai et al. ( Bai et al., 2015 ) established a steady-state mathematical 
model for LHP operating under gravity-assisted conditions, identifying 
two driving modes: gravity-driven mode at low heat loads and capillary- 
gravity co-driven mode at high heat loads in gravity-assisted orienta -
tions. However, relying on gravity assistance has significant limitations 
for LHP application scenarios. Some scholars have proposed using me -
chanical pumps to increase the driving force and flow rate of the 
working fluid, thereby overcoming the capillary limit of LHP, improving 
heat dissipation capacity, and solving the issue of heat leakage from the 
evaporator to the compensation chamber ( Yang et al., 2022; Jiang et al., 
2017; Zhang et al., 2019 ). Zhang et al. ( Zhang et al., 2020 )proposed a 
pump-assisted LHP using ammonia as the working fluid, with a 
maximum heat load of 370 W, a heat source temperature maintained 
below 80 ℃ , and a heat transfer distance of 2320 mm. Liu et al. ( Liu 
et al., 2008; Jie et al., 2008; Jie et al., 2008 ) proposed a two-phase flow 
cooling loop system driven by a mechanical pump, using CO
2 
as the 
circulating working fluid. They conducted a series of studies on the 
system ’ s overheating phenomenon, startup characteristics, and tem -
perature control operating points. Through experiments, they believed 
that the system has advantages such as high temperature control accu -
racy, strong heat dissipation capacity, long heat transfer distance, and 
good stability, meeting the needs of future spacecraft.
Pump drives consume extra energy and incorporate moving parts, 
compromising system reliability. Furthermore, they necessitate the 
Fig. 18. Electron Micrographs of Wicks Prepared by New Processing Methods and Materia.
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
17 

===== PAGE 18 =====
installation of reservoirs, valves, and controllers, leading to increased 
volume and system complexity. To further increase the limiting heat flux 
density, Dupont et al. ( V D. Diphasic cooling loop with satellite evapo -
rators, 2019 )proposed a Capillary Jet Loop Heat Pipe (CJL), which adds 
a bypass and a vapor injector to the LHP, enhancing fluid circulation in 
the loop.
To enhance the driven force of the LHP, we proposed a novel single- 
evaporator LHP by coupling a vapor-driven jet injector (VDJI) ( Liu et al., 
2021; Liu et al., 2021 ), as shown in Fig. 20 . The vapor generated by the 
evaporator serves as the power source for the vapor – liquid two-phase 
flow ejector. It draws in hot fluid from the compensation chamber and 
mixes it within the ejector to form a single-phase liquid that enters the 
condenser for cooling. The replacement of hot and cold fluids in the 
compensation chamber then creates directed movement of the working 
fluid ( Zhou et al., 2024 ).
3.1.3. Condensation limit and condenser Optimization\
The condensation limit of LHP is the critical state in which the sys -
tem ’ s heat transfer performance is limited by the inability of the vapor to 
fully condense due to insufficient condenser heat dissipation capacity. 
Its main influencing factors include the heat exchange efficiency of the 
condenser, the thermophysical properties of the working fluid, and the 
external cooling conditions. The condenser plays a pivotal role in LHP 
research, with its flow and heat exchange states greatly influencing 
system performance.Methods to optimize the condenser include 
increasing the heat dissipation area, improving the structure, and opti -
mizing the layout so as to enhance the condensation efficiency, break 
through the heat transfer limit, and enhance the overall performance of 
the LHP.
However, unlike the evaporator and its internal wick, which are 
research focal points, the condenser receives less attention. Researchers 
often simply use empirical parameters to calculate the heat exchange 
length of the condenser and retain sufficient margins. There is little 
design of condensers with special structures, and few in-depth studies on 
the impact of the condenser on LHP performance. For high-heat-flux 
dissipation applications in limited spaces, issues such as insufficient 
condensation area or efficiency may arise, along with higher resistance 
due to spatial constraints on pipe sizes. Li et al. ( Li et al., 2013 ) proposed 
LHP with dual condensers, as shown in Fig. 21 . Infrared testing results 
indicated uneven distribution of the working fluids across different 
condensers, which gradually diminishes with increasing heat load.
Some scholars have optimized the performance of LHP by altering 
the structure and positioning of the condenser. Wan et al. ( Wan et al., 
2012 )introduced an array of pin structures on the condenser surface to 
enhance condensation heat transfer and conducted a finite element 
analysis to determine the optimal structural parameters, as depicted in 
Fig. 22 . This system is capable of reliably initiating and sustaining 
continuous operation above 200 W, with the evaporator temperature 
held steady at 100 
◦
C. Wang ( Wang et al., 2012 ) explored the influence 
of condenser positioning on the startup characteristics of MLHP. Spe -
cifically, when the condenser is situated nearer to the evaporator outlet, 
the heat pipe initiates more smoothly. Conversely, as the condenser 
shifts towards the inlet of the liquid reservoir, the startup time surges 
dramatically, accompanied by unstable temperature fluctuations and 
temperature overshoot events.
4. LHP theory and simulation
Research on theoretical models of LHP can more intuitively 
demonstrate their operating processes, aid understanding of their heat 
dissipation mechanisms, explore their thermal performance, and pro -
vide data support for experimental research on LHP. The operating 
Table 5 
The way to raise the capillary limit.
The way to raise the 
capillary limit
Treatment Wick material Characteristics Ref.
Optimize pore size 
distribution
Addition of pore forming agent Nickel Bi-porous wick have better capillary performance and heat 
transfer performance than mono-porous wicks.
Qu ( Qu et al., 
2016 )
Sintering of metal powders with 
different particle sizes
Copper A double-layered composite copper wick for both efficient 
evaporation and high permeability was proposed.
Xu ( Xu et al., 
2020 )
Enhance the 
hydrophilicity of 
wick
Oxidize with hydrogen peroxide 
(H
2
O
2
)
Copper Oxidization of the surface of purple copper wick enhances the 
hydrophilicity and liquid-absorbing capacity of wick.
Guo ( Guo et al., 
2020 )
Alloying-dealloying treatment Copper The nanostructures were coated on the powder surface to 
effectively improve the capillary properties by modifying the 
properties.
Li ( Li et al., 2018 )
Copper chemical-plating modified 
polyacrylonitrile-based carbon 
fiber wick
Copper fiber The copper plating layer increases the surface thermal 
conductivity and is beneficial to the uniform heating of the 
working fluid in the evaporating chamber.
Liu ( Liu et al., 
2019 )
Superhydrophilic sintered copper 
mesh screen
Copper Wide vapor removal channels and thin screen bars facilitate 
low flow resistance of the vapor and high capillary force of the 
liquid.
Lv ( Lv and Li, 
2017 )
New processing 
method
Metal 3D Printing Stainless steels Regular wick shape and controlled pore distribution. Hu ( Hu et al., 
2020 )
Grooved nanocarbon foams Nanocarbon foams Good capillary performance, lighter mass, stable operation. Li ( Li and Zhang, 
2022 )
Nickel wick bonded graphene 
coating
Graphene coating / Nickel The graphene coating improves the wicking height of at least 
3.5 times.
Buffone ( Buffone 
et al., 2016 )
New materials Novel bi-porous Ti
3
(Al,Si)C
2 
wick Ti / Al / Si / C The rapid startup, steady operation and reliable self- 
adjustment against the external heat variations. The bi-porous 
structure formed by fine pores nesting large pores assisted the 
self-adjustment ability of LHP.
Cao ( Cao et al., 
2022 )
Sub-micron scale glass porous 
materials
Glass Porous Material/ 
Polytetrafluoroethylene
Ultra-micron (0.1 µ m class) pore size design capability, very 
high mechanical strength and excellent heat resistance.
Nakamura (
Nakamura et al., 
2022 )
Polyethersulfone film Polyethersulfone film The synergistic enhancement of capillary force and 
permeability is realized, and the heat transfer effect of sintered 
nickel powder porous wick is easily achieved, and the weight is 
only 1/13 of nickel wick.
Hu ( Hu et al., 
2023 )
Carbonizing the Karuvelam wood Karuvelam wood The heat transfer performance is comparable to that of 
conventional wick, but its structural durability has yet to be 
verified.
Solomon (
Solomon et al., 
2020 )
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
18 

===== PAGE 19 =====
process of LHP involves the coupled effects of multiple physical phe -
nomena such as flow of working fluids in porous media, phase change 
heat transfer, and heat transfer. The internal heat and mass transfer 
processes are highly complex, resulting in theoretical model research 
lagging far behind experimental research. Currently, research on 
theoretical models of LHP mainly focuses on modeling of single evap -
orator and the overall LHP system.
4.1. Evaporator model
The evaporator comprises a wick, a compensation chamber, vapor 
channels, a vapor outlet, a liquid-phase inlet, and the evaporator wall. 
Theoretical research on LHP evaporators primarily focuses on the flow 
characteristics and heat transfer properties of the working fluid. Cher -
nysheva et al. ( Chernysheva and Maydanik, 2016 ) developed two LHP 
evaporator models to analyze the impact of convective components on 
heat transfer within the wick and the heat exchange process in the 
evaporation zone. The first model, entirely made of copper, considers 
convective heat transfer through the wick, while the second, constructed 
of stainless steel with a nickel wick, neglects convective components. 
Numerical simulation results reveal that convective components 
contribute minimally to overall heat transfer, and as the thermal con -
ductivity of the wick decreases, the influence of convective components 
on temperature distribution within the evaporator diminishes. Lin et al. 
( Lin et al., 2021 )utilized the augmented Young-Laplace model to 
establish a thin-film evaporation model incorporating energy, mass, and 
momentum conservation principles. The findings indicate that pore size 
and superheat primarily influence evaporation by altering the lengths of 
the transition film and intrinsic meniscus. Adachi et al. ( Adachi et al., 
2022 )developed a novel evaporator model that replicates temperature 
distribution within the evaporator wick and nucleate boiling, enabling 
quantitative assessment of the impact of nucleate boiling in the evapo -
rator wick. They compared the computational results of the model 
incorporating nucleate boiling with experimental results visualizing 
nucleate boiling in the evaporator wick, achieving good agreement. 
Experimental results suggest that nucleate boiling does not occur in the 
evaporator wick when the heat conducted through the wick is low, such 
as when the wick has low thermal conductivity or the working fluid has 
high latent heat. Fukushima et al. ( Fukushima and Nagano, 2017 ) 
established a three-dimensional evaporator model based on energy and 
momentum conservation principles. Simulation results show that the 
temperature difference within the compensation chamber, when 
comparing the model ’ s calculated values to experimental values, is less 
than 8.4 
◦
C, indicating the model ’ s ability to predict LHP performance. 
Yamada et al. ( Yamada et al., 2019 )established a one-dimensional heat 
transfer model within the meniscus based on thin-film evaporation 
theory. They combined the meniscus evaporation rate calculated by the 
one-dimensional model with a macroscopic numerical model of the 
evaporator to predict evaporator performance. Zhou et al. ( Zhou et al., 
2019 )conducted one-dimensional numerical simulations and experi -
mental research on a two-phase heat leakage model for the LHP evap -
orator. They proposed a two-phase heat leakage model that considers 
the impact of bubble generation on heat leakage properties and system 
operation. Compared to the traditional conductive heat leakage equa -
tion, this model better describes the two-phase transport characteristics 
within the evaporator wick.
4.2. Overall model of the loop heat pipe
Research into the modeling of the entire LHP system enables the 
prediction of experimental device performance and guides LHP design. 
Mitomi et al. ( Mitomi and Nagano, 2014 )formulated a mathematical 
model based on one-dimensional steady-state flow to anticipate the 
operational traits of long-distance LHP. Siedel et al. ( Siedel et al., 2015 ) 
integrated the energy balance equation with a two-dimensional 
analytical solution for the temperature field within the evaporator, 
creating a steady-state analysis model. The findings reveal that this 
model possesses independent primary parameters, which can be 
experimentally ascertained using fewer temperature measurements, and 
the theoretical outcomes align well with experimental results. Riehl 
et al. ( Riehl and Mancin, 2022 )formulated a model to predict the 
Fig. 19. Improved LHP Designs to Promote Working fluid Reflux.
Fig. 20. LHP Coupled with a Vapor-Liquid Two-Phase Flow Ejector ( Liu 
et al., 2021 ).
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
19 

===== PAGE 20 =====
properties of nanofluids in LHP, offering better assessments of the in -
fluence of specific solid nanoparticles in the base fluid, albeit its stability 
necessitates further validation. Du et al. ( Du et al., 2020 ) conceived and 
fabricated a LHP devoid of a compensation chamber, incorporating a 
wick in the liquidus to bolster the startup and stable operational capa -
bilities of the heat pipe. They also established a steady-state model to 
predict the operating temperature of the LHP. Simulation results, when 
compared to experimental data, indicate that the maximum relative 
error in temperature across various locations within the LHP is less than 
15 %. Vlassov et al. ( Vlassov and Riehl, 2008 ) formulated a mathe -
matical model for LHP equipped with a cylindrical evaporator, designed 
to monitor the vapor – liquid interface in the condenser and the overflow 
rate in the compensating chamber. The computational results are in 
good agreement with experimental findings. Zhu et al. ( ZHU et al., 
2018 )formulated a mathematical model for each node, leveraging nodal 
analysis and energy conservation principles. This model facilitates the 
computation of heat transfer, pressure loss, and temperature conditions 
at each node. Comparisons with experimental data demonstrate excel -
lent alignment between the simulated temperatures derived from the 
mathematical model and experimental temperatures. Jose et al. ( JOSE 
and BABY, 2019 )utilized a three-dimensional computational fluid dy -
namics model to investigate the thermal performance of a flat-oval LHP 
utilizing silica-water nanofluid as the working fluid. The relative devi -
ation between simulation results and experimental values stands at 3.13 
%. Zhang et al. ( Zhang et al., 2019 )constructed a 3D model of the entire 
LHP to assess the impact of heat leakage from the evaporator heating 
surface to the reservoir on the operation and overall performance of the 
LHP. Simulations reveal that heat leakage from the evaporator heating 
surface to the reservoir is the primary cause of heat pipe failure. Existing 
prediction models for LHP heat exchange capacity encounter challenges 
in acquiring sufficient data and determining accurate parameter values, 
resulting in uncertain and impractical prediction outcomes. Liu et al. 
( Liu et al., 2022 )pioneeringly developed a big data-driven prediction 
model for LHP heat transfer limits, leveraging neural networks and grey 
relation analysis methods. The correlation coefficient (R) is 0.9997, the 
mean squared error (MSE) is 52.7, and the mean relative error (MRE) is 
0.32 %, all falling within an acceptable range of accuracy, thereby 
demonstrating the model ’ s robust prediction accuracy and consistency.
LHP system models can generally be divided into three categories: 
conventional one-dimensional steady-state models ( Du et al., 2020; 
Vlassov and Riehl, 2008; ZHU et al., 2018; Zhang et al., 2019; Liu et al., 
2022; Meng et al., 2020 ), one-dimensional steady-state models based on 
nodal analysis ( ZHU et al., 2018; Li et al., 2019 ), and three-dimensional 
computational fluid dynamics models ( JOSE and BABY, 2019; Zhang 
et al., 2019 ). Conventional one-dimensional steady-state models have a 
relatively simple structure and are widely used, providing the relation -
ship between thermal load and temperature. One-dimensional steady- 
state models based on nodal analysis are more accurate than conven -
tional models and can provide temperature conditions at various points 
in the LHP at different heating times, in addition to the relationship 
between thermal load and temperature. However, as one-dimensional 
models, they cannot capture the internal mass transfer conditions at 
various locations in the LHP. For three-dimensional computational fluid 
dynamics models, the temperature distribution and internal mass 
transfer conditions at various points in the LHP can be obtained, but the 
construction of three-dimensional models is complex, the computation 
time is long, and the error is larger.
Some researchers have studied the operational characteristics of LHP 
by developing unsteady-state models. Kaya et al. ( Kaya et al., 2008 ), 
Nagai et al. ( Adachi et al., 2019 ), and Huang et al. ( Huang et al., 2009 ) 
proposed transient LHP models based on one-dimensional time-varying 
conservation equations to study the startup and temperature oscillation 
processes of LHP. The numerical response time is faster than experi -
mental observations. Hashimoto et al. ( Hashimoto et al., 2022 )estab -
lished a LHP transient analysis model using the Newton-Raphson 
method ’ s multi-dimensional extension, which can be used to detect 
changes in the two-phase zone, and the calculation results agree well 
with experimental results. Bernagozzi et al. ( Bernagozzi et al., 2018 ) 
developed a one-dimensional lumped-parameter model to predict the 
transient behavior of LHP under different boundary and initial condi -
tions, validated against experimental data from the literature.
Fig. 21. LHP Structure Proposed by Li et al. ( Li et al., 2013 ).
Fig. 22. Condenser with Array Pin Structure Proposed by Wan et al. ( Wan et al., 2012 ).
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
20 

===== PAGE 21 =====
4.3. Heat transfer mechanism of loop heat pipe
Maydanik et al. ( Maidanik, 1997 ) first proposed a mathematical 
formula for the operational conditions of the heat transfer mechanism in 
LHP and demonstrated the thermodynamic cycle of the working fluid in 
the P-T coordinate system. Furthermore, they illustrated it through a 
diagram showing the saturation line distribution of the working fluid at 
typical temperatures and pressures in LHP. The P-T thermodynamic 
cycle diagram of LHP can be used to analyze the operational status of the 
device from the perspectives of fluid mechanics and heat transfer (see 
Fig. 23 (a)) and to determine the thermodynamic state of each compo -
nent of the working fluid, illustrating their interactions. Kumar et al. 
( Kumar et al., 2022 )used the P-T thermodynamic cycle diagram to 
investigate the impact of heat leakage from the evaporator to the 
compensation chamber on LHP performance. Wang et al. ( Wang et al., 
2020 )explained the transition of LHP between gravity-driven and 
capillary-gravity-driven modes due to changes in thermal load condi -
tions through two P-T thermodynamic cycle diagrams. Jung et al. ( Jung 
and Boo, 2020 )used the P-T thermodynamic cycle diagram to demon -
strate the delay of wick dry-out by the bypass line. Chernysheva et al. 
( Chernysheva and Maydanik, 2023 )were the first to consider the overall 
thermodynamic system of “ heat source-LHP-heat sink ” and presented 
the P-T thermodynamic cycle diagram for this system ( Fig. 23 (b)). Using 
the P-T thermodynamic cycle diagram, the authors analyzed the overall 
system thermal resistance and the individual resistances of the evapo -
rator and condenser, proposing a unified approach to estimate LHP 
thermal resistance.
5. Instability mechanisms and Mitigation methods of loop heat 
pipes
Researchers have conducted extensive studies on flat-plate LHP, but 
their instability limits their widespread application. Firstly, temperature 
fluctuations can occur under certain operating conditions, which is 
detrimental to temperature control and can lead to transient thermal 
stresses, reducing the lifespan of the device. Secondly, issues such as 
start-up failure and the temperature overshoot phenomenon are com -
mon under low-load conditions. Temperature overshoot refers to a sit -
uation where the temperatures of the heat source and evaporator may 
rise significantly above their steady-state temperatures, potentially 
exceeding the maximum allowable temperature of the device ( Hong 
et al., 2017 ).
5.1. Temperature fluctuation
Temperature fluctuation describes the phenomenon where, under 
certain specific operating conditions, the temperature of LHP fails to 
attain a stable value and instead oscillates within a defined temperature 
range. This was first experimentally observed by J. Ku ( Ku et al., 2001 ). 
Researchers have dedicated extensive efforts to studying temperature 
fluctuations in LHP and have offered plausible explanations for their 
mechanisms and underlying causes. Primarily, oscillations in the 
vapor – liquid interface at the inlet and outlet of the condenser can induce 
fluctuations in the flow rate and temperature of the working fluid 
returning to the compensation chamber. During low thermal load con -
ditions, the evaporator generates only a minimal amount of vapor, 
leading to oscillations of the vapor – liquid interface at the condenser 
inlet. Huynh et al. ( HUYNH et al., 2018 )mitigated these temperature 
fluctuations by increasing the cooling water temperature or reducing the 
fill ratio. Conversely, under high thermal load conditions, the evapo -
rator produces a significant amount of vapor, which the condenser 
cannot condense into liquid promptly, resulting in the vapor – liquid 
interface periodically exiting the condenser and entering the liquid line. 
The research findings of Holman et al. ( Holman et al., 2019 ) suggest that 
incorporating a power-adjustable heat source within the liquid line or 
compensation chamber can eliminate temperature fluctuations. How -
ever, this approach elevates the operating temperature of the LHP and 
necessitates additional energy consumption.
Insufficient capillary force is also a cause of temperature fluctuations 
under low thermal load conditions. The capillary force in the evaporator 
is manifested as the temperature difference between the saturated vapor 
temperature in the vapor channel and the saturated liquid temperature 
in the compensation chamber, i.e., the superheat of the evaporator. Due 
to the low thermal load, the heat supplied to the evaporator is insuffi -
cient, and after the system successfully operates, the vapor superheat 
decreases. Subsequently, the capillary force continuously decreases, 
reducing the amount of vapor entering the condenser. More heat accu -
mulates in the evaporator, causing the evaporation rate and pressure of 
the working fluid in the evaporator to continuously rise. When they 
become sufficiently large, a large amount of vapor enters the condenser 
again, and subcooled liquid enters the compensation chamber, 
increasing the superheat. However, due to the insufficient thermal load, 
the above process will repeat periodically, resulting in cyclic tempera -
ture changes. To enhance the stability of the vapor – liquid interface 
within the wick, a wick with a smaller pore size can be used ( Maydanik 
Fig. 23. P-T Thermodynamic Cycle Diagram of Loop Heat Pipe ( Chernysheva and Maydanik, 2023 ).
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
21 

===== PAGE 22 =====
et al., 2005 ), and the cooling water temperature can be appropriately 
increased ( Wang et al., 2011 ).
The periodic formation and annihilation of bubbles in the compen -
sation chamber are another important factor causing temperature fluc -
tuations. The continuous change in the two-phase content within the 
compensation chamber, resulting from heat leakage from the wick to the 
compensation chamber and the subcooling provided by the condenser, 
leads to continuous changes in the vapor – liquid evaporation interface 
within the wick, causing temperature oscillations in the evaporator.
Reducing heat leakage is therefore one of the strategies to mitigate 
temperature fluctuations. In terms of material thermal conductivity, the 
evaporator ’ s heating baseplate employs copper, which has a higher 
thermal conductivity to enhance evaporation efficiency, while the top 
cover utilizes stainless steel or aluminum alloy with a lower thermal 
conductivity to minimize heat leakage ( Zhou et al., 2016; Song et al., 
2020 ). To address the issue of heat leakage in the evaporator, He et al. 
( Song et al., 2020 )constructed the heated surface of the evaporator from 
copper and other parts from stainless steel, effectively reducing the 
temperature difference between the evaporator outlet and the 
compensating chamber, and minimizing heat leakage through the 
sidewalls. The wick can be crafted from materials with low thermal 
conductivity to reduce heat leakage, albeit at the cost of decreased 
evaporation efficiency. Composite wicks made of two different materials 
with varying thermal conductivities can effectively address the heat 
leakage problem while ensuring evaporation efficiency. Commonly used 
combinations include copper/nickel ( Xu et al., 2014; Mathews et al., 
2020 ) and nickel/polystyrene ( WU et al., 0000 ). Yang et al. ( Yang et al., 
2022 )introduced a dual-wick LHP structure featuring a small-pore, low- 
thermal-conductivity silicon nitride primary wick and a large-pore 
stainless steel secondary wick, designed to reduce heat leakage from 
the evaporator to the compensating chamber and enhance start-up and 
operational reliability in anti-gravity and microgravity environments. 
Zhu et al. ( Zhu and Yu, 2016 )through analysis and modeling of ejector- 
assisted LHP, discovered that increasing the inner diameter of the gas 
line from 4 mm to 5 mm reduces the pressure drop, thereby narrowing 
the temperature difference between the compensator and the wick, and 
reducing the heat leakage transmitted via the wick to the compensator. 
Given that heat leakage is almost unavoidable under current experi -
mental conditions, promptly removing heat leakage from the compen -
sation chamber is equally crucial. Pastukhov et al. ( Pastukhov and 
Maydanik, 2007 ) attached a thermosiphon tightly to the compensation 
chamber wall to enhance heat dissipation. Wang et al. ( Wang et al., 
2011 ) installed a finned heat sink on the outer wall of the compensation 
chamber to lower its temperature. Additionally, the pump-driven 
method and the coupled ejector method described in Chapter 2 
improve the critical heat flux of LHP by reducing heat leakage. The 
pump-driven method leverages subcooled liquid passing through the 
compensation chamber to enable rapid replacement and renewal of hot 
and cold fluids, effectively removing heat leakage and suppressing 
bubble formation and temperature fluctuations. The coupled ejector 
method harnesses the energy of the vapor at the evaporator outlet to 
create a directed flow of liquid in the compensation chamber for 
removing heat leakage.
Other causes of temperature fluctuations include an excessively low 
filling rate ( Xu et al., 2017 ), excessive additional mass on the evaporator 
( HOLMAN et al., 2018 ), an excessive amount of non-condensable gas 
( Yang et al., 2017 ), and instability of vapor – liquid two-phase flow in the 
condenser ( Gai, 2020 ).
5.2. Start-Up failure
Research on the start-up characteristics of LHP began early, accu -
mulating substantial theoretical findings and experimental data ( Ku and 
Rodriquez, 2003 ). Some applications require LHP to operate over a wide 
power range, but issues such as start-up failure ( Vershinin and Mayda -
nik, 2007 ) and significant temperature overshoot ( CHEN et al., 2005 ) 
under low heat loads hinder their broader adoption. The vapor – liquid 
distribution within the evaporator directly impacts the start-up behavior 
of the LHP system. When the working fluid of the evaporator is in a 
vapor – liquid two-phase state, the gas acts as an effective vaporization 
nucleus, allowing rapid evaporation once the working fluid reaches its 
phase change temperature. Conversely, if the working fluid is entirely 
liquid, it requires a certain degree of superheat to undergo phase change 
and initiate nucleate boiling, which is detrimental to LHP start-up 
( Zhang et al., 2019 ). Moreover, when the evaporator is filled with 
liquid, evaporation tends to occur at low start-up heat loads within the 
wick ( Zhang et al., 2005 ). The initial state within the evaporator cor -
relates with the interval between successive start-ups. In horizontally 
oriented LHP, a sufficiently long start-up interval results in the vapor 
channel being filled with liquid, leading to temperature overshoot 
during start-up under low heat loads. In contrast, a shorter start-up in -
terval maintains a vapor – liquid coexistence in the vapor channel, miti -
gating temperature overshoot.
In addition to the vapor – liquid distribution within the evaporator, 
scholars have investigated other factors influencing LHP start-up failure 
and temperature overshoot. Wang et al. ( Wang et al., 2012 ) explored the 
impact of condenser position on start-up performance, finding that 
closer proximity to the evaporator outlet results in smoother start-up, 
while moving the condenser towards the reservoir inlet prolongs start- 
up time and induces unstable temperature oscillations and overshoot. 
Zhang et al. ( Zhang et al., 2019 ) locally heated the evaporator using an 
auxiliary heat source to suppress temperature overshoot during start-up. 
Wang et al. ( Wang et al., 2019 ) compared the influence of tube diameter 
on LHP start-up performance, revealing that increasing the internal tube 
diameter from 2 mm to 4 mm reduces the start-up heat load to 5 W and 
lowers the steady-state operating temperature.
6. Applications of loop heat pipes
6.1. Ground applications
The rapid development of compact electronic packaging and mini -
aturization technology has fueled the advancement of LHP. As efficient 
heat transfer devices, LHP has swiftly gained recognition in various 
ground-based industries, particularly for thermal management of high- 
heat-flux electronic components. Researchers have developed multiple 
LHP designs to address the dissipation needs of high-heat-flux elec -
tronics such as computer CPU and LED chips. Pastukhov et al. 
( Pastukhov and Maydanik, 2007 )developed passive or semi-passive 
systems based on LHP for computer enclosures, as shown in Fig. 24
(a). Using deionized water as the working fluid, their LHP maintained a 
working temperature of 72 – 78 
◦
C for CPU (AMD Athlon XP2500 + ) 
cooling, achieving 100 W cooling capacity at an ambient temperature of 
22 
◦
C in passive mode and up to 180 W with a semi-passive system, 
reducing system thermal resistance to 0.29 
◦
C/W. Maydanik et al. 
( Maydanik et al., 2020 ) designed a water-cooled LHP with a compen -
sation chamber on the evaporator side, using deionized water as the 
working fluid. This LHP achieved a cooling capacity of 900 W at a 
cooling water temperature of 40 
◦
C, as shown in Fig. 24 (b). When 
applied to an Intel Xeon E5-2620 CPU with a thermal design power of 
95 W, the CPU temperature remained below 70 
◦
C, and cooling power 
consumption decreased by 10.3 % compared to traditional cooling so -
lutions. Lu et al. ( Lu et al., 2009 )analyzed the heat transfer character -
istics of LHP used in an LED lighting cooling system. Mo et al. ( Mo et al., 
2009 ) fabricated a flat-oval LHP for LED streetlight dissipation, which, 
after two months of continuous operation, maintained stable perfor -
mance with all LED substrate temperatures below 60 
◦
C, except for brief 
overheating during start-up. Li et al. ( Li et al., 2013 )designed a light -
weight gravity-assisted dual-condenser LHP, shown in Fig. 24 (c), which 
achieved a cooling capacity of 300 W under natural convection condi -
tions and kept the surface temperature of a 50 W LED chip below 85 
◦
C 
at an ambient temperature of 45 
◦
C. Kumar et al. ( Kumar et al., 2022 ) 
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
22 

===== PAGE 23 =====
designed a copper-based LHP for thermal management of high-power 
LED modules, shown in Fig. 24 (d). This LHP dissipated more heat 
(190 W) with methanol than with acetone (150 W) or pentane (150 W) 
at the allowable temperature limit (100 
◦
C) and cooled a 200 W LED 
module, maintaining the LED substrate temperature below 90 
◦
C. Zim -
beck et al. ( Zimbeck et al., 2008 ) designed a LHP cooling solution for a 
dual-CPU server (100 W thermal power), shown in Fig. 24 (e). At room 
temperatures of 26 – 30 
◦
C, the LHP-cooled CPU reached 55 
◦
C, a 20 
◦
C 
reduction compared to traditional air-cooled heat sinks.
Due to the unique capillary structure and negative pressure within 
LHP, they do not cause coolant contamination or leakage, making them 
highly promoted for practical cooling systems in data centers. Tian et al. 
( TIAN et al., 2015 ) applied multi-stage LHP to data centers based on LHP 
technology, as shown in Fig. 25 (a), developing LHP cabinets and ret -
rofitting a data center in Beijing, achieving a 41.6 % energy saving 
compared to air conditioning. Professor Zhao Xudong ’ s team at the 
Centre for Sustainable Energy Technologies (CSET) at the University of 
Hull, in collaboration with partner Hisense Group and funded by the 
EU ’ s “ Horizon 2020 ” program, constructed and tested a novel LHP- 
based cooling and heat recovery system for data centers using micro -
channel cold/hot plates — the LHP-CH-Plate-4-DC prototype, shown in 
Fig. 25 (b). Experimental tests revealed that under optimal conditions 
(simulated heat load of 500 W, cooling water flow rate of 600 L/h, 
cooling water temperature of 15 
◦
C, and refrigerant charge rate of 30 %), 
the system achieved a maximum heat recovery efficiency of 86.28 % 
( Zhangyuan, 2019 ). Frigel Firenze SpA and Neurok Thermocon jointly 
developed a 350 kW Modular Data Center (MDC) based on passive liquid 
cooling, which combines LHP with high-efficiency insulated cooling 
towers, as shown in Fig. 25 (c). The 350 kW MDC is industry-standard in 
size and can accommodate up to 1008 OCP servers across 12 racks. It has 
been implemented in four data centers of varying sizes, with another 10 
MW data center currently under construction ( Passive Liquid Cooling 
Enables a Carbon Free 350kW Modular Data Center to be Presented on 
Data Centre World in Londo [Z], 2023 ).
Renewable energy sources are increasingly valued for their cleanli -
ness and sustainability, with projections indicating that they will meet 
over 70 % of global electricity growth, with solar energy surpassing the 
growth of all other renewable sources combined. However, taking solar 
photovoltaic cells as an example, an increase in temperature by just 1 
◦
C 
leads to a linear reduction in efficiency by 0.25 % to 0.5 %, underscoring 
the urgent need for efficient and stable thermal management solutions. 
LHP, capable of operating against gravity and achieving higher 
maximum heat transfer capacities, is ideal for solar collection systems 
aimed at hot water and space heating. Zhao et al. ( Zhao et al., 2010 ) 
Fig. 24. Ground application of loop heat pipes.
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
23 

===== PAGE 24 =====
designed and theoretically analyzed a novel LHP solar heating system, 
revealing that variations in the height difference between the evaporator 
and condenser can impact system performance, as illustrated in Fig. 26
(a). Considering LHP solar systems and Beijing ’ s climatic conditions, 
they discovered that a height difference exceeding 0.4 m ensures suffi -
cient heat transfer capacity for effective heat absorption. Xu et al. ( Xu 
et al., 2022 ) introduced a hybrid heating system that integrates the LHP 
solar collector with a ground-source heat pump to maintain greenhouse 
temperatures in Harbin, China ’ s coldest provincial capital. The system ’ s 
configuration is depicted in Fig. 26 (b). Experimental results showed that 
as the ambient temperature rose from   24 
◦
C to   13 
◦
C, the LHP-based 
solar collector (LHPSC) achieved a maximum thermal efficiency of 
76.38 % and an average thermal efficiency of 69.68 %. These findings 
offer valuable insights for designing greenhouse heating systems in 
severely cold regions.
The evolution of LHP technology has continuously expanded its 
applications. Fredphillips et al. ( Fredphillips and Wert, 2000 ) designed a 
LHPIPS system consisting of four distributed DLHPs and one transport 
Fig. 25. LHP Applied to Large Server Dissipation
Fig. 26. LHP in Solar Energy Utilization
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
24 

===== PAGE 25 =====
LHP to meet the antifreeze needs of the Global Hawk UAV engine 
cowling. Under the same operating conditions, the antifreeze effect of 
LHP is shown in Fig. 27 . Zhao et al. ( Su et al., 2018; Zhao et al., 2017 ) 
experimentally verified the startup and operation characteristics of a 
dual-reservoir LHP in an ice protection system and summarized its 
application in aircraft ice protection systems. Giarno et al. ( Giarno et al., 
2022 ) applied LHP to NuScale modules in nuclear power to address the 
dissipation of decay heat in the event of nuclear facility failures. Ber -
nagozzi et al. ( Bernagozzi et al., 2021 ) proposed a system combining 
LHP with thermal management for electric vehicle batteries, with a 
structure shown in Fig. 28 . This LHP can transfer 150 W of heat from the 
battery module to a remote heat exchanger. Compared to liquid cold 
plate designs, the new system reduced the peak temperature after rapid 
charging by 3.6 
◦
C.
6.2. Space application
As aerospace technology advances, electronic components are 
becoming more miniaturized, generating greater heat and imposing 
stricter requirements on spacecraft thermal control. LHP is used as a 
temperature regulation system to assist spacecraft in heat dissipation 
( Yao and Sakurai, 1998; Tjiptahardja et al., 2000 ). In 1989, Maydanik 
et al. ( Maydanik, 2005 ) conducted the Large Hadron Collider experi -
ment on the Russian “ Gorizon ” spacecraft, with the experimental setup 
shown in Fig. 29 (a). Telemetry results provided by the spacecraft veri -
fied the normal operation of LHP from 1989 to 1996, demonstrating its 
robustness under space conditions. Currently, the outstanding perfor -
mance of LHP makes it a preferred choice for satellite thermal regula -
tion. In space missions, due to improved detection accuracy, deep space 
telescopes are becoming larger in diameter, and these instruments 
require efficient and reliable thermal management. Liu et al. ( Liu et al., 
2022 ) designed a large-area, low-temperature LHP for optical tele -
scopes, as shown in Fig. 29 (b). The device has a heat exchange area of up 
to 1 m
2 
and an average temperature performance of less than 5 K. This 
device can normally start and operate under anti-gravity conditions, 
proving the feasibility of large-area, multi-source heat collection low- 
temperature LHP. Guo et al. ( Guo et al., 2018 ) designed a LHP using 
ammonia as the working fluid and applied it to thermal control in space 
infrared detection systems. This LHP achieved a heat transfer limit of 4 
W within a distance of 0.6 m. Yang et al. ( Yang et al., 2022 ) designed a 
new LHP with a ceramic primary wick and a stainless steel secondary 
wick, as shown in Fig. 29 (c), enhancing the adaptability of the flat 
capillary pump to microgravity or anti-gravity environments. Experi -
mental results showed that the LHP could start quickly at 5 W, with a 
heat exchange limit greater than 400 W, and it could start under 
microgravity conditions at 50 W on geostationary orbit satellites, 
operating stably for over an hour.
7. Summary and Outlook
In recent years, with the widespread adoption and application of 
high-power and high-heat-flux electronic devices, LHP has garnered 
significant attention and in-depth research as efficient heat transfer 
devices. Their unique heat transfer mechanism and high heat dissipation 
performance have demonstrated vast application prospects in multiple 
fields. This paper will provide a detailed overview of recent domestic 
and international research progress in LHP, covering their configura -
tions, heat transfer limits, theoretical simulations, unstable mechanisms 
and suppression methods, as well as applications.
(1) The configuration of LHP significantly affects their performance. 
Current research primarily focuses on the design of novel evaporator 
structures, the impact of the number of heat sources, condenser struc -
ture design, and working fluid selection. By optimizing these configu -
ration parameters, the heat transfer efficiency of LHP can be effectively 
enhanced to meet the demands of various application scenarios.
(2) As high-power electronic devices become more prevalent, LHP 
faces higher heat transfer limits. Wick dry-out is a key factor limiting 
LHP heat flux density. Thus, global scholars are working to enhance 
LHP ’ s maximum heat flux density by optimizing wick structures and 
improving LHP system designs.
(3) Numerical simulations play an increasingly important role in LHP 
research. By constructing numerical models of LHP, optimizations in 
structural design, visualizations of temperature distributions, and as -
sessments of heat dissipation capabilities can be achieved. In recent 
years, scholars have made significant progress in LHP evaporator models 
and steady-state operation models, providing a theoretical foundation 
for the development and improvement of new models.
(4) LHP tends to experience operational instability issues, such as 
temperature fluctuations and startup failures, under low-load condi -
tions. To address these issues, scholars have delved into the mechanisms 
causing LHP instability and proposed corresponding solutions, such as 
optimizing vapor – liquid interface distributions and enhancing capillary 
forces.
(5) In terms of applications, LHP is primarily used for electronic 
device dissipation and spacecraft thermal control. With technological 
advancements, their application fields continue to expand, including 
engine antifreeze, communication base stations, electric vehicle battery 
dissipation, and high-power graphics card dissipation. These applica -
tions demonstrate the broad prospects of LHP in various domains.
Despite extensive research on LHP by scholars worldwide, there is 
still considerable room for performance improvement. In the future, we 
can optimize and envision applications for LHP from the following 
aspects:
(1) Develop high-performance wicks. A high-quality wick should 
possess characteristics such as high capillary force, low flow resistance, 
and ease of manufacturing. By improving wick materials and structures, 
the heat transfer efficiency of LHP can be further enhanced.
(2) Enhance the overall structure of LHP. Improvements in the 
overall structure can optimize the vapor – liquid distribution and flow 
state within LHP, thereby enhancing their heat exchange performance. 
Future research can focus on developing more compact and efficient 
Fig. 27. Application of loop heat pipes in heat dissipation of airplane 
( Fredphillips and Wert, 2000 ).
Fig. 28. Application of loop heat pipes in heat dissipation of battery pack 
( Bernagozzi et al., 2021 ).
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
25 

===== PAGE 26 =====
LHP structures to cater to the needs of different application scenarios.
(3) Develop unsteady-state models. Most existing theoretical models 
for LHP are steady-state models, which cannot accurately describe the 
heat and mass transfer phenomena during the startup process. There -
fore, developing effective and accurate unsteady-state models for LHP 
holds significant research importance and can provide more precise 
guidance for LHP design.
(4) Reduce production costs and simplify manufacturing processes. 
Currently, the manufacturing process for LHP is relatively complex and 
production costs are high, limiting their widespread commercial appli -
cation. In the future, by improving evaporator structures and 
manufacturing processes, production costs for LHP can be reduced, 
driving their application in a broader range of fields.
In summary, as an efficient heat transfer device, LHP hold vast 
application prospects in multiple fields. By delving into their configu -
rations, heat transfer limits, theoretical simulations, unstable mecha -
nisms and suppression methods, as well as applications, we can 
continuously optimize their performance and promote their application 
and development in more fields. ( Wang et al., 2022; Maydanik et al., 
2020 ).
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Qingjie Cui: Writing – original draft. Ziyi You: Writing – original 
draft. Yicheng Ni: Data curation, Conceptualization. Xiaoping Yang: 
Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft. Yao Zhou: Vali -
dation. Jinjia Wei: Writing – review & editing. Jiping Liu: Writing – 
review & editing.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgement
The research was supported by the National Natural Science Foun -
dation of China (No.52476090, U2141218).
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.
References
Ha, M., Graham, S., 2012. Development of a thermal resistance model for chip-on-board 
packaging of high power LED arrays [J]. Microelectron. Reliab. 52 (5), 836 – 844 .
Wu, W., Zhang, G., Ke, X., et al., 2015. Preparation and thermal conductivity 
enhancement of composite phase change materials for electronic thermal 
management [J]. Energ. Conver. Manage. 101, 278 – 284 .
Tharwan, M.Y., Hadidi, H.M., 2022. Experimental investigation on the thermal 
performance of a heat sink filled with PCM [J]. Alex. Eng. J. 61 (9), 7045 – 7054 .
OR ´o E, ALLEPUZ R, MARTORELL I, et al. Design and economic analysis of liquid cooled 
data centres for waste heat recovery: A case study for an indoor swimming pool [J]. 
Sustainable Cities and Society, 2018, 36: 185-203.
Ding, T., He, Z.G., Hao, T., et al., 2016. Application of separated heat pipe system in data 
center cooling [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 109, 207 – 216 .
Heat Pipe, USSR Inventors Certifcate 449213. 1974.
Maydanik, Y.F., 2005. Loop heat pipes [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 25 (5), 635 – 657 .
AL K A G E. Loop heat pipes in thermal control systems for “ ObZor ” spacecraft [Z]. 25th 
IntConference on Environmental Systems. San Diego, CA. 1995.
Fig. 29. Application of LHP in Space.
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
26 

===== PAGE 27 =====
M.A. Chernyshova, Yu.F. Maydanik, S.V. Vershinin, Heat exchange in the evaporator of a 
loop pipe with abiporous capillary structure, in: Proc. of 11th Int. Heat Pipe 
Conference, Tokyo, Japan, 12-16 September 1999, pp348-354.
Heat transfer apparatus, US Patent 4515209, 1985.
Wang, X., Liu, Y., Tian, T., et al., 2022. Directly air-cooled compact looped heat pipe 
module for high power servers with extremely low power usage effectiveness [J]. 
Appl. Energy 319, 119279 .
Swanson, T.D., Birur, G.C., 2003. NASA thermal control technologies for robotic 
spacecraft [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 23 (9), 1055–1065 .
Riehl, R.R., Dutra, T., 2005. Development of an experimental loop heat pipe for 
application in future space missions [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 25 (1), 101–112 .
Maydanik, Y., Chernysheva, M., Vershinin, S., 2020. High-Capacity Loop Heat Pipe with 
Flat Evaporator for Efficient Cooling Systems [J]. JOURNAL OF THERMOPHYSICS 
AND HEAT TRANSFER 34 (3), 465–475 .
Xue, Z.H., Qu, W., Xie, M.H., 2020. High Performance Loop Heat Pipe With Flat 
Evaporator for Energy-Saving Cooling Systems of Supercomputers [J]. J. Heat 
Transfer 142 (3) .
Weng, C., Wang, Z., Xiang, J., et al., 2021. Numerical and experimental investigations of 
the micro-channel flat loop heat pipe (MCFLHP) heat recovery system for data centre 
cooling and heat recovery [J]. Journal of Building Engineering 35, 102088 .
HUANG B-J, HSU P-C, TSAI R-J, et al. A thermoelectric generator using loop heat pipe 
and design match for maximum-power generation [J]. Applied Thermal 
Engineering, 2015, 91: 1082-91.
Yang, Z., Zhang, Y., Bai, L., et al., 2022. Experimental study on the thermal performance 
of an ammonia loop heat pipe using a rectangular evaporator with longitudinal 
replenishment [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 207, 118199 .
Fredphillips, A.L., Wert, K.L., 2000. Loop Heat pipe Anti Icing System Development 
Program Summary [J]. SAE Trans. 109 (1), 657–663 .
Zhao, X., Wang, Z., Tang, Q., 2010. Theoretical investigation of the performance of a 
novel loop heat pipe solar water heating system for use in Beijing, China [J]. Appl. 
Therm. Eng. 30 (16), 2526–2536 .
Chiou, J.P., 1982. The effect of nonuniform fluid flow distribution on the thermal 
performance of solar collector [J]. Sol. Energy 29 (6), 487–502 .
Li, J.K., Du, W.J., Jiang, S.L., et al., 2010. Expression of ADAM-15 in rat myocardial 
infarction [J]. Int. J. Exp. Pathol. 90 (3), 347–354 .
Hong, S., Wang, S., Zhang, L., 2017. Effect of groove configuration on two-phase flow 
instability for Ultra-Thin Looped Heat Pipes in thermal management system [J]. Int. 
J. Therm. Sci. 121, 369–380 .
Gabsi, I., Maalej, S., Zaghdoudi, M.C., 2018. Thermal performance modeling of loop heat 
pipes with flat evaporator for electronics cooling [J]. Microelectron. Reliab. 84, 
37–47 .
Gully, P., Mo, Q., Yan, T., et al., 2011. Thermal behavior of a cryogenic loop heat pipe for 
space application [J]. Cryogenics 51 (8), 420–428 .
Okamoto, A., Miyakita, T., Nagano, H., 2019. On-orbit Experiment Plan of Loop Heat 
Pipe and the Test Results of Ground Test [J]. Microgravity Sci. Technol. 31 (3), 
327–337 .
Maydanik, Y.F., Chernysheva, M.A., Pastukhov, V.G., 2014. Review: Loop heat pipes 
with flat evaporators [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 67 (1), 294–307 .
North M T , Sarraf D B , Rosenfeld J H ,et al.High heat flux loop heat pipes[J].NTRS, 
1997:561-566.DOI:10.1063/1.52046.
Wu, S.C., Wang, D., Gao, J.H., et al., 2014. Effect of the number of grooves on a wick’s 
surface on the heat transfer performance of loop heat pipe [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 71 
(1), 371–377 .
Kiseev, V.M., Vlassov, V.V., Muraoka, I., 2010. Experimental optimization of capillary 
structures for loop heat pipes and heat switches [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 30 (11), 
1312–1319 .
HE S, ZHAO J, LIU Z-C, et al. Experimental investigation of loop heat pipe with a large 
squared evaporator for cooling electronics [J]. Applied Thermal Engineering, 2018, 
144: 383-91.
Tian, W., He, S., Liu, Z., et al., 2019. Experimental investigation of a miniature loop heat 
pipe with eccentric evaporator for cooling electronics [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 159, 
113982 .
Tang, Y., Xiang, J., Wan, Z., et al., 2010. A novel miniaturized loop heat pipe [J]. Appl. 
Therm. Eng. 30 (10), 1152–1158 .
Kamran, M.S., Naz, K., Umer, J., et al., 2021. Experimental Evaluation of Performance 
Characteristics of a Horizontal Copper Mesh Wick-Based Miniature Loop Heat Pipe 
[J]. ARABIAN JOURNAL FOR SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 46 (3), 2121–2132 .
Xiong, K., Meng, L., Wang, S., 2022. Design, fabrication, investigation and analysis of a 
novel flat evaporator loop heat pipe for cooling high heat flux server chips [J]. Appl. 
Therm. Eng. 201, 117775 .
Ji, X., Wang, Y., Xu, J., et al., 2017. Experimental study of heat transfer and start-up of 
loop heat pipe with multiscale porous wicks [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 117, 782–798 .
Riehl, R.R., dos Santos, N., 2008. Loop heat pipe performance enhancement using 
primary wick with circumferential grooves [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 28 (14), 
1745–1755 .
Li, J., Wang, D., Peterson, G.P.B., 2011. A Compact Loop Heat Pipe With Flat Square 
Evaporator for High Power Chip Cooling [J]. IEEE Trans. Compon. Packag. Manuf. 
Technol. 1 (4), 519–527 .
Pastukhov, V.G., Maidanik, Y.F., Vershinin, C.V., et al., 2003. Miniature loop heat pipes 
for electronics cooling [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 23 (9), 1125–1135 .
MAYDANIK Y F. MINIATURE LOOP HEAT PIPES; proceedings of the International Heat 
Pipe Conference: Preprint vol1; 20040921-25; Shanghai(CN), F, 2004 [C].
Maydanik, Y.F., Vershinin, S.V., Korukov, M.A., et al., 2005. Miniature loop heat pipes-a 
promising means for cooling electronics [J]. IEEE Trans. Compon. Packag. Technol. 
28 (2), 290–296 .
MEYER L, DASGUPTA S, SHADDOCK D, et al. A silicon-carbide micro-capillary pumped 
loop for cooling high power devices; proceedings of the Ninteenth Annual IEEE 
Semiconductor Thermal Measurement and Management Symposium, 2003, F 11-13 
March 2003, 2003 [C].
SHIOGA T, MIZUNO Y. Micro loop heat pipe for mobile electronics applications; 
proceedings of the 2015 31st Thermal Measurement, Modeling & Management 
Symposium (SEMI-THERM), F 15-19 March 2015, 2015 [C].
WANG C-T, LEU T-S, LAI T-M. Micro capillary pumped loop system for a cooling high 
power device [J]. Experimental Thermal and Fluid Science, 2008, 32(5): 1090-5.
KIRSHBERG J, YERKES K L. Micro-Cooler for Chip-Level Temperature Control [J]. 1999, 
1.
Song, W., Xu, Y., Xue, L., et al., 2021. Visualization Experimental Study on Silicon-Based 
Ultra-Thin Loop Heat Pipe Using Deionized Water as Working Fluid [J]. 
Micromachines 12 (9), 1080 .
Hsu, C.C., Kang, S.W., Hou, T.F., 2005. Performance testing of micro loop heat pipes [J]. 
Tamkang Journal of Science and Engineering 8 (2) .
Watanabe, N., Mizutani, T., Nagano, H., 2021. High-performance energy-saving 
miniature loop heat pipe for cooling compact power semiconductors [J]. Energ. 
Conver. Manage. 236 (1), 114081 .
Mizutani, T., Watanabe, N., Aso, S., et al., 2022. Experimental and analytical 
investigation of a 0.3-mm-thick loop heat pipe for 10 W-class heat dissipation [J]. 
Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 193 .
Phan, N., Nagano, H., 2022. Novel hybrid structures to improve performance of 
miniature flat evaporator loop heat pipes for electronics cooling [J]. Int. J. Heat 
Mass Transf.
Cui, Q., Ma, X., You, Z., et al., 2025. Bending the heat: Innovative ultra-thin flexible loop 
heat pipes for enhanced mobile device cooling [J]. Energ. Conver. Manage. 325 
(000) .
Shioga, T., Mizuno, Y., Nagano, H., 2020. Operating characteristics of a new ultra-thin 
loop heat pipe [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 151, 119436 .
Shioga, T., Abe, T., Nagano, H., 2020. Submillimeter-thick loop heat pipes fabricated 
using two-layer copper sheets for cooling electronic applications [J]. Appl. Therm. 
Eng. 181 .
Chen, A., Jiang, F., Dong, J., et al., 2022. Design, fabrication and thermal performance of 
a novel ultra-thin loop heat pipe with printed wick structure for mobile electronics 
cooling [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 200, 117683 .
Ueno, A., Tomita, S., Nagano, H., 2021. Experimental Investigation On a Thin Loop Heat 
Pipe with New Evaporator Structure [J]. J. Heat Transfer 143 (6) .
Domiciano, K.G., Krambeck, L., Florez, J.P.M., et al., 2022. Thin diffusion bonded flat 
loop heat pipes for electronics: Fabrication, modelling and testing [J]. Energ. 
Conver. Manage. 255 .
Qu, Y., Wang, S., Tian, Y., 2018. A Review of Thermal Performance in Multiple 
Evaporators Loop Heat Pipe [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 143, 209–224 .
Nagano, H., Ku, J., 2007. Capillary Limit of a Multiple-Evaporator and Multiple- 
Condenser Miniature Loop Heat Pipe [J]. J. Thermophys Heat Transfer 21 (4), 
694–701 .
Chang, X., Watanabe, N., Nagano, H., 2019. Visualization study of a loop heat pipe with 
two evaporators and one condenser under gravity-assisted condition [J]. Int. J. Heat 
Mass Transf. 135 .
Ku, J., Ottenstein, L., Douglas, D., et al., 2005. Miniature Loop Heat Pipe with Multiple 
Evaporators for Thermal Control of Small Spacecraft. [J].
Goncharov, K., Golovin, O., Kolesnikov, V., 2000. Loop Heat Pipe with Several 
Evaporators [J]. SAE Trans. 109 (1), 587–602 .
Muller, J., Ochterbeck, J., Perez, J., et al., 2005. Characterization of a Multiple- 
Evaporator Capillary Pumped Loop. [J]. 1 .
Ku, J., Birur, G., 2001. Testing of a Loop Heat Pipe with Two. Evaporators and Two 
Condensers [j].
VAN OOST S, DUBOIS M, BEKAERT G. Test Results of Reliable and Very High Capillary 
Multi-Evaporators / Condenser Loop; proceedings of the International Conference on 
Environmental Systems, F, 1995 [C].
He, S., Ma, Z., Deng, W., et al., 2022. Experimental investigation on the start-up 
performance of a novel flat loop heat pipe with dual evaporators [J]. Energy Rep. 8, 
7500–7507 .
Wu, T., Wang, T., Ma, Z., et al., 2022. Experimental investigation on the start-up 
performance of a loop heat pipe with three flat disk evaporators combined [J]. 
Design, processes, equipment, economics, Applied thermal engineering . 
Pastukhov, V.G., Maydanik, Y.F., 2018. Development and Tests of a Loop Heat Pipe with 
Several Separate Heat Sources [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 144 .
Xiao, B., Deng, W., Ma, Z., et al., 2020. Experimental investigation of loop heat pipe with 
a large squared evaporator for multi-heat sources cooling [J]. Renew. Energy 147 .
Liu, L., Yuan, B., Cui, C., et al., 2022. Investigation of a loop heat pipe to achieve high 
heat flux by incorporating flow boiling [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf.
Liu, L., Yuan, B., Yang, X., et al., 2022. Experimental study of a novel loop heat pipe with 
a vapor-driven jet injector and a boiling pool [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 184 .
Ahmed, S., Pandey, M., Kawaji, M., 2022. Loop Heat Pipe Design: An Evaluation of 
Recent Research on the Selection of Evaporator, Wick, and Working Fluid [J]. 
J. Therm. Sci. Eng. Appl. 14 (7) .
Liu, L., Ma, X., Ji, X., et al., 2023. Performance improvement of loop heat pipe by micro- 
pin-fins/powders composite surface [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf.
CHI S W. Heat pipe theory and practice [J]. Washington, 1976.
MANTELLI M B H. Thermosyphons and Heat Pipes: Theory and Applications [M]. 
Thermosyphons and Heat Pipes: Theory and Applications, 2021.
Anand, A.R., Akhil, J., Amrit, A., et al., 2018. Experimental studies on a miniature loop 
heat pipe with flat evaporator with various working fluids [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 
144, 495–503 .
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
27 

===== PAGE 28 =====
Maydanik, Y., Pastukhov, V., Chernysheva, M., 2018. Development and investigation of a 
loop heat pipe with a high heat-transfer capacity [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 130 (000), 
10 .
Liao, Z., Xu, C., Ren, Y., et al., 2018. Thermal analysis of a conceptual loop heat pipe for 
solar central receivers [J]. Energy 158, 709–718 .
Anand, A.R., Ambirajan, A., Dutta, P., 2020. Investigations on vapour blanket formation 
inside capillary wick of loop heat pipe [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 156, 119685 .
Liu, C., Xie, R., Li, N., et al., 2020. Experimental study of loop heat pipes with different 
working fluids in 190–260 K [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 178, 115530 .
Ku, J., Robinson, F., 2016. Thermal Vacuum Testing of a Helium Loop Heat Pipe for 
Large Area Cryocooling. Proceedings of the International Conference on 
Environmental Systems (ICES) .
HOANG T T, O’CONNELL T A, JENTUNG K, et al. Performance demonstration of 
hydrogen advanced loop heat pipe for 20-30 K cryocooling of far infrared sensors 
[J]. Proceedings of the SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, 
2005, 5904: 590410-1-10.
Hoang, T.T., O’Connell, T.A., Khrustalev, D.K., 2003. Development of a flexible advanced 
loop heat pipe for across-gimbal cryocooling [Z]. CRYOGENIC OPTICAL SYSTEMS 
AND INSTRUMENTS X.
Guo, Y., Lin, G., He, J., et al., 2019. Supercritical startup strategy of cryogenic loop heat 
pipe with different working fluids [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 155, 267–276 .
Bugby, D., Marland, B., Stouffer, C., et al., 2003. Across-gimbal and miniaturized 
cryogenic loop heat pipes [Z]. SPACE TECHNOLOGY AND APPLICATIONS 
INTERNATIONAL FORUM - STAIF 2003, 218–226 .
KHRUSTALEV D K, SEMENOV S Y. ADVANCES IN LOW-TEMPERATURE, CRYOGENIC, 
AND MINIATURE LOOP HEAT PIPES [J].
Stephen, E.N., Asirvatham, L.G., Kandasamy, R., et al., 2019. Heat transfer performance 
of a compact loop heat pipe with alumina and silver nanofluid [J]. J. Therm. Anal. 
Calorim. 136 (1) .
JOSE J, BABY R. Enhancement of the thermal performance of a loop heat pipe using 
silica-water nanofluid; proceedings of the IOP Publishing Ltd, F, 2019 [C].
Wan, Z., Deng, J., Li, B., et al., 2015. Thermal performance of a miniature loop heat pipe 
using water–copper nanofluid [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 78, 712–719 .
Hu, Y., Zhang, S., Li, X., et al., 2015. Heat transfer enhancement of subcooled pool 
boiling with self-rewetting fluid [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 83 .
Francescantonio, N.D., Savino, R., Abe, Y., 2008. New alcohol solutions for heat pipes: 
Marangoni effect and heat transfer enhancement [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 51 
(25–26), 6199–6207 .
Wu, S.C., Yen, S.H., Lo, W.C., et al., 2017. Study of Nickel Wick Structure Applied to 
Loop Heat Pipe with Flat Evaporator [J]. Key Eng. Mater. 723, 282–287 .
Boubaker, R., Harmand, S., Ouenzerfi, S., 2019. Effect of self-rewetting fluids on the 
liquid/vapor phase change in a porous media of two-phase heat transfer devices [J]. 
Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 136 (JUN.), 655–663 .
Wang, Y.W.D., 2020. Comparative study of two loop heat pipes using R134a as the 
working fluid [J]. Applied Thermal Engineering: Design, Processes, Equipment, 
Economics 164 .
Tharayil, G.W.S., 2019. Effect of Filling Ratio and Tilt Angle on the Performance of a 
Mini-Loop Thermosyphon [J]. Journal of Thermal Science and Engineering 
Applications: Transactions of the ASME 11 (6) .
Tharayil, T., Asirvatham, L.G., Ravindran, V., et al., 2016. Thermal performance of 
miniature loop heat pipe with graphene–water nanofluid [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass 
Transf. 93 (FEB.), 957–968 .
Zhou, G., Li, J., 2018. Two-phase flow characteristics of a high performance loop heat 
pipe with flat evaporator under gravity [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 117 (feb.), 
1063–1074 .
Chernysheva, M.A., Yushakova, S.I., Maydanik, Y.F., 2015. Effect of external factors on 
the operating characteristics of a copper–water loop heat pipe [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass 
Transf. 81 (feb.), 297–304 .
Liu, L., Yang, X., Yuan, B., et al., 2021. Experimental study of a novel loop heat pipe with 
a vapor-driven jet injector [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 164, 120518 .
Maydanik, Y.F., Vershinin, S.V., Chernysheva, M.A., 2017. Experimental study of an 
ammonia loop heat pipe with a flat disk-shaped evaporator using a bimetal wall [J]. 
Appl. Therm. Eng. 126 .
Zhang, H., Li, G., Chen, L., et al., 2019. Development of Flat-Plate Loop Heat Pipes for 
Spacecraft Thermal Control [J]. Microgravity Sci. Technol. 31 (4) .
Zhang, Z., Zhang, H., Liu, Z., et al., 2020. Experimental study of heat transfer capacity for 
loop heat pipe with flat disk evaporator [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 173, 115183 .
Liu, L., Yang, X., Yuan, B., et al., 2020. Experimental study on thermal performance of a 
loop heat pipe with a bypass line [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 147, 118996 .
Wang, D., Liu, Z., Shen, J., et al., 2014. Experimental study of the loop heat pipe with a 
flat disk-shaped evaporator [J]. Exp. Therm Fluid Sci. 57, 157–164 .
Baek, Y., Jung, E.G., 2022. Heat transfer performance of loop heat pipe for space vehicle 
thermal control under bypass line operation [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 194 .
Odagiri, K., Nagano, H., 2019. Investigation on liquid-vapor interface behavior in 
capillary evaporator for high heat flux loop heat pipe [J]. Int. J. Therm. Sci. 140, 
530–538 .
A K O, B H N. Heat transfer characteristics of flat evaporator loop heat pipe under high 
heat flux condition with different orientations [J]. Applied Thermal Engineering, 
2019, 153: 828-36.
Ling, W., Zhou, W., Liu, R., et al., 2016. Thermal performance of loop heat pipe with 
porous copper fiber sintered sheet as wick structure [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 108, 
251–260 .
Ramasamy, N.S., Kumar, P., Wangaskar, B., et al., 2018. Miniature ammonia loop heat 
pipe for terrestrial applications: Experiments and modeling [J]. Int. J. Therm. Sci. 
124, 263–278 .
Wang, X., Yang, J., Wen, Q., et al., 2022. Visualization study of a flat confined loop heat 
pipe for electronic devices cooling [J]. Appl. Energy 322, 119451 .
Ergun, S., 1952. Fluid Flow through Packed Columns [J]. Chem Eng Prog 48, 89–94 .
Faghri, A., 1995. Heat pipe science and technology [J]. Energy Fuels 36 (4), 285- .
Weibel, J.A., Garimella, S.V., North, M.T., 2010. Characterization of evaporation and 
boiling from sintered powder wicks fed by capillary action [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass 
Transf. 53 (19–20), 4204–4215 .
Deng, D., Tang, Y., Huang, G., et al., 2013. Characterization of capillary performance of 
composite wicks for two-phase heat transfer devices [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 56 
(1), 283–293 .
Xu, P., Yu, B., 2008. Developing a new form of permeability and Kozeny–Carman 
constant for homogeneous porous media by means of fractal geometry [J]. Adv. 
Water Resour. 31 (1), 74–81 .
Liu, Z.C., Liu, W., Nakayama, A., 2007. Flow and heat transfer analysis in porous wick of 
CPL evaporator based on field synergy principle [J]. HEAT AND MASS TRANSFER 
43 (12), 1273–1281 .
Yang, X.P., Cui, Q.J., You, Z.Y., et al., 2024. Experimental and theoretical study on 
performance of bi-porous wick for passive phase-change devices [J]. Phys. Fluids 36 
(12) .
Zhao, R., Zhang, Z., Zhao, S., et al., 2021. Experimental study of flat-disk loop heat pipe 
with R1233zd(E) for cooling terrestrial electronics [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 197, 
117385 .
Chen, F., Ma, L., Shen, Q., et al., 2011. Pore structure control of starch processed silicon 
nitride porous ceramics with near-zero shrinkage [J]. Mater. Lett. 65 (9), 
1410–1412 .
Pabst, W., Zivcova, Z., Cerny, M., et al., 2009. Elastic Properties of Porous Oxide 
Ceramics Prepared Using Starch as a Pore-Forming Agent [J]. J. Eur. Ceram. Soc. 29 
(13), 2765–2771 .
Xia, Y., Zeng, Y.P., Jiang, D., 2011. Mechanical and dielectric properties of porous Si 3 N 
4 ceramics using PMMA as pore former [J]. Ceram. Int. 37 (8), 3775–3779 .
He, Z., Ma, J., Zhang, R., 2004. Investigation on the microstructure and ferroelectric 
properties of porous PZT ceramics [J]. Ceram. Int. 30 (7), 1353–13563 .
Xu, J., Zou, Y., Fan, M., et al., 2012. Effect of pore parameters on thermal conductivity of 
sintered LHP wicks [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 55 (9–10), 2702–2706 .
Li, H., Liu, Z.C., Chen, B.B., et al., 2012. Development of biporous wicks for flat-plate 
loop heat pipe [J]. Exp. Therm Fluid Sci. 37 (none), 91–97 .
Cao, Y., Wu, D., Guo, C., et al., 2021. Fabrication and capillary performance of bi-porous 
Ti3AlC2 wicks with controllable pore size proportion using dissolvable pore formers 
[J]. J. Mater. Res. Technol. 15, 4370–4380 .
Zhang, Z., Zhao, R., Liu, Z., et al., 2020. Application of biporous wick in flat-plate loop 
heat pipe with long heat transfer distance [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 184, 116283 .
Qu, Y., Zhou, K., Zhang, K.F., et al., 2016. Effects of multiple sintering parameters on the 
thermal performance of bi-porous nickel wicks in Loop Heat Pipes [J]. Int. J. Heat 
Mass Transf. 99, 638–646 .
Xu, J., Wang, D., Hu, Z., et al., 2020. Effect of the working fluid transportation in the 
copper composite wick on the evaporation efficiency of a flat loop heat pipe [J]. 
Appl. Therm. Eng. 178, 115515 .
Yang, T., Gao, T., Zhao, S.L., et al., 2022. Performance Test of Novel Flat Capillary Pump 
Loop Heat Pipe under Anti-gravity and Microgravity [J]. MICROGRAVITY SCIENCE 
AND TECHNOLOGY 34 (3) .
Guo, H., Ji, X., Xu, J., 2020. Enhancement of loop heat pipe heat transfer performance 
with superhydrophilic porous wick [J]. Int. J. Therm. Sci. 156, 106466 .
Li, H., Fu, S., Li, G., et al., 2018. Effect of fabrication parameters on capillary pumping 
performance of multi-scale composite porous wicks for loop heat pipe [J]. Appl. 
Therm. Eng. 143, 621–629 .
Liu, J., Zhang, Y., Feng, C., et al., 2019. Study of copper chemical-plating modified 
polyacrylonitrile-based carbon fiber wick applied to compact loop heat pipe [J]. Exp. 
Therm Fluid Sci. 100, 104–113 .
Lv, L., Li, J., 2017. Managing high heat flux up to 500W/cm2 through an ultra-thin flat 
heat pipe with superhydrophilic wick [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 122, 593–600 .
Tharayil, T., Asirvatham, L.G., Ravindran, V., et al., 2016. Effect of filling ratio on the 
performance of a novel miniature loop heat pipe having different diameter transport 
lines [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 106, 588–600 .
Zhou, W., Ling, W., Duan, L., et al., 2016. Development and tests of loop heat pipe with 
multi-layer metal foams as wick structure [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 94, 324–330 .
Riehl, R.R., Siqueira, T.C.P.A., 2006. Heat transport capability and compensation 
chamber influence in loop heat pipes performance [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 26 (11), 
1158–1168 .
Nagano, H., Nishigawara, M., 2011. Small Loop Heat Pipe with Plastic Wick for 
Electronics Cooling [J]. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 50 (11S), 11RF02 .
Santos, P.H.D., Bazzo, E., Oliveira, A.A.M., 2012. Thermal performance and capillary 
limit of a ceramic wick applied to LHP and CPL [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 41, 92–103 .
Xu, J., Zou, Y., Yang, D., et al., 2013. Development of biporous Ti3AlC2 ceramic wicks 
for loop heat pipe [J]. Mater. Lett. 91, 121–124 .
Li, H., Wang, X., Liu, Z., et al., 2015. Experimental investigation on the sintered wick of 
the anti-gravity loop-shaped heat pipe [J]. Exp. Therm Fluid Sci. 68, 689–696 .
Liu, Z., Wang, D., Jiang, C., et al., 2015. Experimental study on loop heat pipe with two- 
wick flat evaporator [J]. Int. J. Therm. Sci. 94, 9–17 .
Xin, G., Cui, K., Zou, Y., et al., 2010. Reduction of effective thermal conductivity for 
sintered LHP wicks [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 53 (13), 2932–2934 .
Ahmed, Y.M.Z., Riad, M.I., Sayed, A.S., et al., 2007. Correlation between factors 
controlling preparation of porous copper via sintering technique using experimental 
design [J]. Powder Technol. 175 (1), 48–54 .
Esarte, J., Blanco, J.M., Bernardini, A., et al., 2017. Optimizing the design of a two-phase 
cooling system loop heat pipe: Wick manufacturing with the 3D selective laser 
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
28 

===== PAGE 29 =====
melting printing technique and prototype testing [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 111, 
407 – 419 .
Hu, Z., Wang, D., Xu, J., et al., 2020. Development of a loop heat pipe with the 3D 
printed stainless steel wick in the application of thermal management [J]. Int. J. 
Heat Mass Transf. 161, 120258 .
Jafari, D., Wits, W.W., Geurts, B.J., 2018. Metal 3D-printed wick structures for heat pipe 
application: Capillary performance analysis [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 143, 403 – 414 .
Putra, N., Saleh, R., Septiadi, W.N., et al., 2014. Thermal performance of biomaterial 
wick loop heat pipes with water-base Al2O3 nanofluids [J]. Int. J. Therm. Sci. 76, 
128 – 136 .
Li, J., Zhang, M., 2022. Enhanced capillary performance of grooved nanocarbon foams as 
wicks for heat pipes [J]. Int. Commun. Heat Mass Transfer 130, 105763 .
Buffone, C., Coulloux, J., Alonso, B., et al., 2016. Capillary pressure in graphene oxide 
nanoporous membranes for enhanced heat transport in Loop Heat Pipes for 
aeronautics [J]. Exp. Therm Fluid Sci. 78, 147 – 152 .
Cao, Y., Guo, C., Yu, Y., et al., 2022. Performances of loop heat pipe with the novel bi- 
porous quaternary MAX phase Ti3(Al,Si)C2 capillary wick [J]. Vacuum 202, 
111185 .
Mitomi, M., Nagano, H., 2014. Long-distance loop heat pipe for effective utilization of 
energy [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 77, 777 – 784 .
Nakamura, K., Ueno, A., Nagano, H., 2022. Experimental study on long-distance anti- 
gravity loop heat pipe with submicron-scale porous structure [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 
214, 118793 .
Hu, X., Hu, C., He, Y., et al., 2023. A polyethersulfone film porous wick for loop heat 
pipes [J]. Int. Commun. Heat Mass Transfer 142, 106652 .
Solomon, A.B., Mahto, A.K., Joy, R.C., et al., 2020. Application of bio-wick in compact 
loop heat pipe [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 169, 114927 .
TUHIN A R, HUYNH P H, HTOO K Z, et al. Thermal performance comparison of flat plate 
evaporator loop heat pipe operating between horizontal condition and gravity 
assisted condition; proceedings of the Institute of Physics, F, 2018 [C].
Bai, L., Guo, J., Lin, G., et al., 2015. Steady-state modeling and analysis of a loop heat 
pipe under gravity-assisted operation [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 83, 88 – 97 .
Yang, X., Liu, J., Wang, G., et al., 2022. Experimental study of mechanical-capillary 
driven phase-change loop for heat dissipation of electronic devices and batteries [J]. 
Appl. Therm. Eng. 210, 118350 .
Jiang, C., Liu, W., Liu, Z., et al., 2017. Startup characteristics of pump-assisted capillary 
phase change loop [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 126, 1115 – 1125 .
Zhang, P., Wei, X., Yan, L., et al., 2019. Review of recent developments on pump-assisted 
two-phase flow cooling technology [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 150, 811 – 823 .
Zhang, H., Jiang, C., Zhang, Z., et al., 2020. A study on thermal performance of a pump- 
assisted loop heat pipe with ammonia as working fluid [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 175, 
115342 .
LIU J, PEI N-Q, GUO K-H, et al. Experimental investigation on mechanical pumped 
cooling loop for application in future space missions [J]. Energy Conversion and 
Management, 2008, 49(10): 2704-10.
Jie, L., Mou, L., Shuang-Xi, Z., et al., 2008. Experimental investigation on start-up of 
mechanically pumped cooling loop [J]. Energ. Conver. Manage. 49 (10), 2595 – 2601 .
JIE L, PEI N-Q, GUO K-H, et al. Experimental investigation on startup of a novel two- 
phase cooling loop [J]. Experimental Thermal and Fluid Science, 2008, 32(4): 939- 
46.
V D. Diphasic cooling loop with satellite evaporators [Z]. 2019.
Liu, L., Yang, X., Yuan, B., et al., 2021. Investigation of temperature oscillations in a 
novel loop heat pipe with a vapor-driven jet injector [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 
179, 121672 .
Zhou, Y., Liu, J., Ni, Y., et al., 2024. Performance of a novel loop heat pipe coupled with 
micro vapor-driven jet injector – An experimental and numerical study [J]. Int. J. 
Heat Mass Transf. 231, 125853 .
Li, J., Lin, F., Wang, D., et al., 2013. A loop-heat-pipe heat sink with parallel condensers 
for high-power integrated LED chips [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 56 (1), 18 – 26 .
WAN Z-P, WANG X-W, TANG Y. Condenser design optimization and operation 
characteristics of a novel miniature loop heat pipe [J]. Energy Conversion and 
Management, 2012, 64: 35-42.
Wang, S., Huo, J., Zhang, X., et al., 2012. Experimental study on operating parameters of 
miniature loop heat pipe with flat evaporator [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 40, 318 – 325 .
Chernysheva, M.A., Maydanik, Y.F., 2016. Peculiarities of heat transfer in a flat disk- 
shaped evaporator of a loop heat pipe [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 92, 1026 – 1033 .
Lin, B., Li, N., Wang, S., et al., 2021. Theoretical Analysis of Thin Film Evaporation in the 
Wicks of Loop Heat Pipes [J]. J. Therm. Sci. Eng. Appl. 14 (5) .
Adachi, T., Chang, X., Nagai, H., 2022. Numerical analysis of loop heat pipe using 
nucleate boiling model in evaporator core [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 195, 123207 .
Fukushima, K., Nagano, H., 2017. New evaporator structure for micro loop heat pipes 
[J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 106, 1327 – 1334 .
Yamada, Y., Nishikawara, M., Yanada, H., et al., 2019. Predicting the performance of a 
loop heat pipe considering evaporation from the meniscus at the three-phase contact 
line [J]. Therm. Sci. Eng. Prog. 11, 125 – 132 .
Zhou, L., Qu, Z.G., Chen, G., et al., 2019. One-dimensional numerical study for loop heat 
pipe with two-phase heat leak model [J]. Int. J. Therm. Sci. 137, 467 – 481 .
Siedel, B., Sartre, V., LEF `eVRE, F., 2015. Complete analytical model of a loop heat pipe 
with a flat evaporator [J]. Int. J. Therm. Sci. 89, 372 – 386 .
Riehl, R., Mancin, S., 2022. Estimation of Thermophysical Properties for Accurate 
Numerical Simulation of Nanofluid Heat Transfer Applied to a Loop Heat Pipe [J]. 
International Journal of Thermofluids .
Du, S., Zhang, Q., Hou, P., et al., 2020. Experimental study and steady-state model of a 
novel plate loop heat pipe without compensation chamber for CPU cooling [J]. 
Sustain. Cities Soc. 53, 101894 .
Vlassov, V.V., Riehl, R.R., 2008. Mathematical model of a loop heat pipe with cylindrical 
evaporator and integrated reservoir [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 28 (8), 942 – 954 .
ZHU K, LI X, WANG Y. Dynamic performance of loop heat pipes for cooling of 
electronics; proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Energy, F, 2018 
[C].
Zhang, Y., Liu, J., Liu, L., et al., 2019. Numerical simulation and analysis of heat leakage 
reduction in loop heat pipe with carbon fiber capillary wick [J]. Int. J. Therm. Sci. 
146, 106100 .
Liu, X., Liu, H., Zhao, X., et al., 2022. A novel neural network and grey correlation 
analysis method for computation of the heat transfer limit of a loop heat pipe (LHP) 
[J]. Energy 259, 124830 .
Meng, F., Zhang, Q., Du, S., et al., 2020. One-dimensional steady-state mathematical 
model of a novel loop heat pipe with liquid line capillary wick [J]. Energy Explor. 
Exploit. 38 (1), 253 – 273 .
Li, X., Zhu, K., Li, H., et al., 2019. Performance comparison regarding loop heat pipes 
with different evaporator structures [J]. Int. J. Therm. Sci. 136, 86 – 95 .
KAYA T, P ´eREZ R, GREGORI C, et al. Numerical simulation of transient operation of loop 
heat pipes [J]. Applied Thermal Engineering, 2008, 28(8): 967-74.
Adachi, T., Fujita, K., Nagai, H., 2019. Numerical study of temperature oscillation in loop 
heat pipe [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 163, 114281 .
Huang, B.J., Huang, H.H., Liang, T.L., 2009. System dynamics model and startup 
behavior of loop heat pipe [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 29 (14), 2999 – 3005 .
Hashimoto, M., Akizuki, Y., Sato, K., et al., 2022. Proposal, transient model, and 
experimental verification of loop heat pipe as heating device for electric-vehicle 
batteries [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 211, 118432 .
Bernagozzi, M., Charmer, S., Georgoulas, A., et al., 2018. Lumped parameter network 
simulation of a Loop Heat Pipe for energy management systems in full electric 
vehicles [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 141, 617 – 629 .
Maidanik, Y.F., 1997. Theoretical Basis and Classification of Loop Heat Pipes and 
Capillary pumped loops. [J].
Kumar, P., Gachake, M., Khandekar, S., 2022. Effect of wick oxidation on the thermal 
performance of a copper-acetone loop heat pipe [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 200, 117627 .
Wang, H., Lin, G., Shen, X., et al., 2020. Effect of evaporator/condenser elevations on a 
loop heat pipe with non-condensable gas [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 180, 115711 .
Jung, E.G., Boo, J.H., 2020. Experimental observation of thermal behavior of a loop heat 
pipe with a bypass line under high heat flux [J]. Energy 197, 117241 .
Chernysheva, M.A., Maydanik, Y.F., 2023. Analysis of the thermal resistance of a loop 
heat pipe based on the P-T diagram of the working fluid operating cycle [J]. Int. J. 
Heat Mass Transf. 209, 124157 .
Ku, J., Ottenstein, L., Kobel, M., et al., 2001. Temperature oscillations in loop heat pipe 
operation [J]. AIP Conf. Proc.
HUYNH P H, ZIN H K, KARIYA K, et al. OSCILLATING BEHAVIOR OF LOOP HEAT PIPE 
WHEN OPERATING UNDER OVERCHARGED CONDITION; proceedings of the 
International Heat Transfer Conference 16, F, 2018 [C].
Holman, T.D., Baldauff, R., Khrustalev, D., 2019. Stabilizing Loop Heat Pipe Operation 
with Control Heaters [J]. AIAA Propulsion and Energy 2019 Forum .
Wang, S., Zhang, W., Zhang, X., et al., 2011. Study on start-up characteristics of loop heat 
pipe under low-power [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 54 (4), 1002 – 1007 .
Song, H., Ping, Z., Wei, L., et al., 2020. Experimental study on thermal performance of 
loop heat pipe with a composite-material evaporator for cooling of electronics [J]. 
Appl. Therm. Eng. 168, 114897 .
Xu, J., Zhang, L., Xu, H., et al., 2014. Experimental investigation and visual observation 
of loop heat pipes with two-layer composite wicks [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 72 
(may), 378 – 387 .
Mathews, A.J., Ranjan, S., Inbaoli, A., et al., 2020. Optimization of the sintering 
parameters of a biporous copper-nickel composite wick for loop heat pipes [J]. 
Mater. Today Proc.
WU S C, PENG J C, LAI S R, et al. Investigation of the effect of heat leak in loop heat pipes 
with flat evaporator [J]. IEEE.
Zhu, L., Yu, J., 2016. Simulation of steady-state operation of an ejector-assisted loop heat 
pipe with a flat evaporator for application in electronic cooling [J]. Appl. Therm. 
Eng. 95, 236 – 246 .
Pastukhov, V.G., Maydanik, Y.F., 2007. Low-noise cooling system for PC on the base of 
loop heat pipes [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 27 (5), 894 – 901 .
Xu, J., Wang, Z., Xu, H., et al., 2017. Experimental research on the heat performance of a 
flat copper-water loop heat pipe with different inventories [J]. Exp. Therm Fluid Sci. 
84, 110 – 119 .
HOLMAN T D, BALDAUFF R W, KHRUSTALEV D K. Thermal-Fluid Transients in a High- 
Power Loop Heat Pipe with Attached Mass [M]. 2018.
Yang, R., Lin, G., He, J., et al., 2017. Investigation on the effect of thermoelectric cooler 
on LHP operation with non-condensable gas [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 110, 1189 – 1199 .
Gai, D., 2020. TEMPERATURE OSCILLATION MECHANISM OF A FLAT-TYPE LOOP 
HEAT PIPE [J]. Heat Transfer Res. 51 (14), 1301 – 1315 .
Ku, J., Rodriquez, J., 2003. Low Frequency High Amplitude Temperature Oscillations in 
Loop Heat Pipe Operation. [J].
Vershinin, S.V., Maydanik, Y.F., 2007. Investigation of pulsations of the operating 
temperature in a miniature loop heat pipe [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 50 (25), 
5232 – 5240 .
CHEN Y, GROLL M, MERTZ R, et al. Steady-state and transient performance of a 
miniature loop heat pipe ☆☆ A preliminary version of this paper was presented at 
ICMM05: Third International Conference on Microchannels and Minichannels, held 
at University of Toronto, June 13 – 15, 2005, organized by S.G. Kandlikar and M. 
Kawaji, CD-ROM Proceedings, ISBN: 0-7918-3758-0, ASME, New York [J]. 
International Journal of Thermal Sciences, 2006, 45(11): 1084-90.
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
29 

===== PAGE 30 =====
Zhang, H.X., Lin, G.P., Ding, T., et al., 2005. Investigation of startup behaviors of a loop- 
heat pipe [J]. JOURNAL OF THERMOPHYSICS AND HEAT TRANSFER 19 (4), 
509 – 518 .
Wang, H., Lin, G., Bai, L., et al., 2019. Experimental study on an acetone-charged loop 
heat pipe with a nickel wick [J]. Int. J. Therm. Sci. 146, 106104 .
LU X-Y, HUA T-C, LIU M-J, et al. Thermal analysis of loop heat pipe used for high-power 
LED [J]. Thermochimica Acta, 2009, 493(1): 25-9.
Mo, D.C., Ding, N., Lu, S.S., 2009. Gravity Effects on the Performance of a Flat Loop Heat 
Pipe [J]. Microgravity Sci. Technol. 21 (1), 95 – 102 .
Kumar, P., Sahu, G., Chatterjee, D., et al., 2022. Copper wick based loop heat pipe for 
thermal management of a high-power LED module [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 211, 
118459- .
Zimbeck, W., Slavik, G., Cennamo, J., et al., 2008. Loop heat pipe technology for cooling 
computer servers [J]. IEEE .
TIAN, HAO, HE, et al. A combined cooling solution for high heat density data centers 
using multi-stage heat pipe loops [J]. Energy & Buildings, 2015.
Zhangyuan, W., 2019. LHP-C-H-PLATE-4-DC - A Novel Loop-Heat-Pipe (LHP)-based Data 
Centre Heat Removal and Recovery System Employing the Micro-channels Cold/Hot 
Plates. [J].
Passive Liquid Cooling Enables a Carbon Free 350kW Modular Data Center to be 
Presented on Data Centre World in Londo [Z]. 2023.
Xu, Z., Lu, J., Xing, S., 2022. Thermal performance of greenhouse heating with loop heat 
pipe solar collector and ground source heat pump [J]. Results Eng. 15, 100626 .
Su, Q., Chang, S., Zhao, Y., et al., 2018. A review of loop heat pipes for aircraft anti-icing 
applications [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 130, 528 – 540 .
Zhao, Y., Chang, S., Yang, B., et al., 2017. Experimental study on the thermal 
performance of loop heat pipe for the aircraft anti-icing system [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass 
Transf. 111, 795 – 803 .
GIARNO, HARYANTO D, G B H K, et al. Heat absorbing capability characterization of 
loop heat pipe model ’ s with variation of filling ratio [J]. AIP Conference 
Proceedings, 2022, 2501(1): 7.
Bernagozzi, M., Georgoulas, A., Nicolas, M., et al., 2021. Novel Battery Thermal 
Management System for Electric Vehicles with a Loop Heat Pipe and Graphite Sheet 
Inserts [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 194, 117061- .
Yao, A., Sakurai, Y., 1998. Thermal design approach of high powered communication 
satellite. [J].
TJIPTAHARDJA T, AMIDIEU M, ST ´ePHANE VAN O, et al. Development of Deployable 
Radiators at Alcatel Space [J]. 2000.
Liu, C., Chen, Y., Feng, D., et al., 2022. Experimental study on temperature uniformity 
and heat transfer performance of nitrogen loop heat pipe with large area and multi- 
heat source [J]. Appl. Therm. Eng. 210, 118344 .
Guo, Y., Lin, G., Bai, L., et al., 2018. Experimental study of the thermal performance of a 
neon cryogenic loop heat pipe [J]. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 120, 1266 – 1274 .
Q. Cui et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 115 (2025) 109880 
30 